He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone 
eighty-four days now without taking a fish. In the first forty days a boy had been with him. 
But after forty days without a fish the boy’s parents had told him that the old man was 
now definitely and finally salao, which is the worst form of unlucky, and the boy had gone 
at their orders in another boat which caught three good fish the first week. It made the 
boy sad to see the old man come in each day with his skiff empty and he always went 
down to help him carry either the coiled lines or the gaff and harpoon and the sail that 
was furled around the mast. The sail was patched with flour sacks and, furled, it looked 
like the flag of permanent defeat. 
The old man was thin and gaunt with deep wrinkles in the back of his neck. The 
brown blotches of the benevolent skin cancer the sun brings from its reflection on the 
tropic sea were on his cheeks. The blotches ran well down the sides of his face and his 
hands had the deep-creased scars from handling heavy fish on the cords. But none of 
these scars were fresh. They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert. 
Everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the 
sea and were cheerful and undefeated. 
“Santiago,” the boy said to him as they climbed the bank from where the skiff was 
hauled up. “I could go with you again. We’ve made some money.” 
The old man had taught the boy to fish and the boy loved him. 
“No,” the old man said. “You’re with a lucky boat. Stay with them.” 
“But remember how you went eighty-seven days without fish and then we caught big 
ones every day for three weeks.” 
“I remember,” the old man said. “I know you did not leave me because you doubted.” 
“It was papa made me leave. I am a boy and I must obey him.” 
“I know,” the old man said. “It is quite normal.” 
“He hasn’t much faith.” 
“No,” the old man said. “But we have. Haven’t we?” 
“Yes,” the boy said. “Can I offer you a beer on the Terrace and then we’ll take the stuff 
home.” 
“Why not?” the old man said. “Between fishermen.”
They sat on the Terrace and many of the fishermen made fun of the old man and he 
was noteangry. Others, of the older fishermen, looked at him and were sad. But they did 
not show it and they spoke politely about the current and the depths they had drifted 
their lines at and the steady good weather and of what they had seen. The successful 
fishermen of that day were already in and had butchered their marlin out and carried 
them laid full length across two planks, with two men staggering at the end of each plank, 
to the fish house where they waited for the ice truck to carry them to the market in 
Havana. Those who had caught sharks had taken them to the shark factory on the other 
side of the cove where they were hoisted on a block and tackle, their livers removed, their 
fins cut off and their hides skinned out and their flesh cut into strips for salting. 
When the wind was in the east a smell came across the harbour from the shark 
factory; but today there was only the faint edge of the odour because the wind had 
backed into the north and then dropped off and it was pleasant and sunny on the Terrace. 
“Santiago,” the boy said. 
“Yes,” the old man said. He was holding his glass and thinking of many years ago. 
“Can I go out to get sardines for you for tomorrow?” 
“No. Go and play baseball. I can still row and Rogelio will throw the net.” 
“I would like to go. If I cannot fish with you. I would like to serve in some way.” 
“You bought me a beer,” the old man said. “You are already a man.” 
“How old was I when you first took me in a boat?” 
“Five and you nearly were killed when I brought the fish in too green and he nearly 
tore the boat to pieces. Can you remember?” 
“I can remember the tail slapping and banging and the thwart breaking and the 
noise of the clubbing. I can remember you throwing me into the bow where the wet coiled 
lines were and feeling the whole boat shiver and the noise of you clubbing him like 
chopping a tree down and the sweet blood smell all over me.” 
“Can you really remember that or did I just tell it to you?”
“I remember everything from when we first went together.” 
The old man looked at him with his sun-burned, confident loving eyes. 
“If you were my boy I’d take you out and gamble,” he said. “But you are your father’s 
and your mother’s and you are in a lucky boat.” 
“May I get the sardines? I know where I can get four baits too.” 
“I have mine left from today. I put them in salt in the box.” 
“Let me get four fresh ones.” 
“One,” the old man said. His hope and his confidence had never gone. But now they 
were freshening as when the breeze rises. 
“Two,” the boy said. 
“Two,” the old man agreed. “You didn’t steal them?” 
“I would,” the boy said. “But I bought these.” 
“Thank you,” the old man said. He was too simple to wonder when he had attained 
humility. But he knew he had attained it and he knew it was not disgraceful and it 
carried no loss of true pride. 
“Tomorrow is going to be a good day with this current,” he said. 
“Where are you going?” the boy asked. 
“Far out to come in when the wind shifts. I want to be out before it is light.” 
“I’ll try to get him to work far out,” the boy said. “Then if you hook something truly 
big we can come to your aid.” 
“He does not like to work too far out.” 
“No,” the boy said. “But I will see something that he cannot see such as a bird 
working and get 
him to come out after dolphin.” “Are his eyes that bad?” “He is almost blind.” “It is 
strange,” the old man said. “He never went turtle-ing. That is what kills the eyes.” “But 
you went turtle-ing for years off the Mosquito Coast and your eyes are good.” 
“I am a strange old man” 
“But are you strong enough now for a truly big fish?” 
“I think so. And there are many tricks.” 
“Let us take the stuff home,” the boy said. “So I can get the cast net and go after 
the sardines.” 
They picked up the gear from the boat. The old man carried the mast on his shoulder 
and the boy carried the wooden boat with the coiled, hard-braided brown lines, the gaff 
and the harpoon with its shaft. The box with the baits was under the stern of the skiff 
along with the club that was used to subdue the big fish when they were brought 
alongside. No one would steal from the old man but it was better to take the sail and the 
heavy lines home as the dew was bad for them and, though he was quite sure no local 
people would steal from him, the old man thought that a gaff and a harpoon were 
needless temptations to leave in a boat. 
They walked up the road together to the old man’s shack and went in through its 
open door. The old man leaned the mast with its wrapped sail against the wall and the 
boy put the box and the other gear beside it. The mast was nearly as long as the one room 
of the shack. The shack was made of the tough budshields of the royal palm which are 
called guano and in it there was a bed, a table, one chair, and a place on the dirt floor to 
cook with charcoal. On the brown walls of the flattened, overlapping leaves of the sturdy 
fibered guano there was a picture in color of the Sacred Heart of Jesus and another 
of the Virgin of Cobre. These were relics of his wife. Once there had been a tinted 
photograph of his wife on the wall but he had taken it down because it made him too 
lonely to see it and it was on the shelf in the corner under his clean shirt. 
“What do you have to eat?” the boy asked. 
“A pot of yellow rice with fish. Do you want some?” 
“No. I will eat at home. Do you want me to make the fire?” 
“No. I will make it later on. Or I may eat the rice cold.” 
“May I take the cast net?” 
“Of course.” 
There was no cast net and the boy remembered when they had sold it. But they went 
through 
this fiction every day. There was no pot of yellow rice and fish and the boy knew this 
too. “Eighty-five is a lucky number,” the old man said. “How would you like to see me 
bring one in that dressed out over a thousand pounds?” “I’ll get the cast net and go for 
sardines. Will you sit in the sun in the doorway?” 
“Yes. I have yesterday’s paper and I will read the baseball.” The boy did not 
know whether yesterday’s paper was a fiction too. But the old man brought it out from 
under the bed. 
“Perico gave it to me at the bodega,” he explained. “I’ll be back when I have the 
sardines. I’ll keep yours and mine together on ice and we can share them in the morning. 
When I come back you can tell me about the baseball.” 
“The Yankees cannot lose.” 
“But I fear the Indians of Cleveland.”
“Have faith in the Yankees my son. Think of the great DiMaggio.” 
“I fear both the Tigers of Detroit and the Indians of Cleveland.” 
“Be careful or you will fear even the Reds of Cincinnati and the White Sax of 
Chicago.” 
“You study it and tell me when I come back.” 
“Do you think we should buy a terminal of the lottery with an eighty-five? Tomorrow 
is the 
eighty-fifth day.” “We can do that,” the boy said. “But what about the eighty-seven of 
your great record?” 
“It could not happen twice. Do you think you can find an eighty-five?” 
“I can order one. 
“One sheet. That’s two dollars and a half. Who can we borrow that from?” 
“That’s easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.” 
“I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg.” 
“Keep warm old man,” the boy said. “Remember we are in September.” 
“The month when the great fish come,” the old man said. “Anyone can be a 
fisherman in May.” 
“I go now for the sardines,” the boy said. 
When the boy came back the old man was asleep in the chair and the sun was down. 
The boy took the old army blanket off the bed and spread it over the back of the chair and 
over the old man’s shoulders. They were strange shoulders, still powerful although very 
old, and the neck was still strong too and the creases did not show so much when the old 
man was asleep and his head fallen forward. His shirt had been patched so many times 
that it was like the sail and the patches were faded to many different shades by the sun. 
The old man’s head was very old though and with his eyes closed there was no life in 
his face. The newspaper lay across his knees and the weight of his arm held it there in the 
evening breeze. He was barefooted. 
The boy left him there and when he came back the old man was still asleep. 
“Wake up old man,” the boy said and put his hand on one of the old man’s knees. 
The old man opened his eyes and for a moment he was coming back from a long way 
away. Then he smiled. 
“What have you got?” he asked. 
“Supper,” said the boy. “We’re going to have supper.”
“I’m not very hungry.” 
“Come on and eat. You can’t fish and not eat.” 
“I have,” the old man said getting up and taking the newspaper and folding it. Then 
he started to fold the blanket. 
“Keep the blanket around you,” the boy said. “You’ll not fish without eating while I’m 
alive.” 
“Then live a long time and take care of yourself,” the old man said. “What are we 
eating?” 
“Black beans and rice, fried bananas, and some stew.” 
The boy had brought them in a two-decker metal container from the Terrace. 
The two sets of knives and forks and spoons were in his pocket with a paper napkin 
wrapped around each set. 
“Who gave this to you?” 
“Martin. The owner.” 
“I must thank him.” 
“I thanked him already,” the boy said. “You don’t need to thank him.” 
“I’ll give him the belly meat of a big fish,” the old man said. “Has he done this for us 
more than once?” 
“I think so.” 
“I must give him something more than the belly meat then. He is very thoughtful for 
us.” 
“He sent two beers.” 
“I like the beer in cans best.” 
“I know. But this is in bottles, Hatuey beer, and I take back the bottles.” 
“That’s very kind of you,” the old man said. “Should we eat?” 
“I’ve been asking you to,” the boy told him gently. “I have not wished to open the 
container until you were ready.” 
“I’m ready now,” the old man said. “I only needed time to wash.” 
Where did you wash? the boy thought. The village water supply was two streets 
down the road. I must have water here for him, the boy thought, and soap and a good 
towel. Why am I so thoughtless? I must get him another shirt and a jacket for the winter 
and some sort of shoes and another blanket.
“Your stew is excellent,” the old man said. 
“Tell me about the baseball,” the boy asked him. 
“In the American League it is the Yankees as I said,” the old man said happily.” 
“They lost today,” the boy told him. 
“That means nothing. The great DiMaggio is himself again.” 
“They have other men on the team.” 
“Naturally. But he makes the difference. In the other league, between Brooklyn and 
Philadelphia I must take Brooklyn. But then I think of Dick Sisler and those great drives 
In the old park.” 
“There was nothing ever like them. He hits the longest ball I have ever seen.” 
“Do you remember when he used to come to the Terrace?” 
“I wanted to take him fishing but I was too timid to ask him. Then I asked you to 
ask him and you were too timid.” “I know. It was a great mistake. He might have gone 
with us. Then we would have that for all of our lives.” “I would like to take the great 
DiMaggio fishing,” the old man said. “They say his father was a fisherman. Maybe he was 
as poor as we are and would understand.” “The great Sisler’s father was never poor and 
he, the father, was playing in the Big Leagues when he was my age.” “When I was your 
age I was before the mast on a square rigged ship that ran to Africa and I 
have seen lions on the beaches in the evening.” 
“I know. You told me.” 
“Should we talk about Africa or about baseball?” 
“Baseball I think,” the boy said. “Tell me about the great John J. McGraw.” He said 
Jota for J. 
“He used to come to the Terrace sometimes too in the older days. But he was rough 
and harsh-spoken and difficult when he was drinking. His mind was on horses as well as 
baseball. At least he carried lists of horses at all times in his pocket and frequently 
spoke the names of horses on the telephone.” 
“He was a great manager,” the boy said. “My father thinks he was the greatest.” 
“Because he came here the most times,” the old man said. “If Durocher had 
continued to come here each year your father would think him the greatest manager.” 
“Who is the greatest manager, really, Luque or Mike Gonzalez?” 
“I think they are equal.” 
“And the best fisherman is you.”
“No. I know others better.” 
“Que Va,” the boy said. “There are many good fishermen and some great ones. But 
there is only you.” 
“Thank you. You make me happy. I hope no fish will come along so great that he will 
prove us wrong.” 
“There is no such fish if you are still strong as you say.” 
“I may not be as strong as I think,” the old man said. “But I know many tricks and I 
have resolution.” “You ought to go to bed now so that you will be fresh in the morning. I 
will take the things back to the Terrace.” 
“Good night then. I will wake you in the morning.” 
“You’re my alarm clock,” the boy said. 
“Age is my alarm clock,” the old man said. “Why do old men wake so early? Is it to 
have one longer day?” 
“I don’t know,” the boy said. “All I know is that young boys sleep late and hard.” 
“I can remember it,” the old man said. “I’ll waken you in time.” 
“I do not like for him to waken me. It is as though I were inferior.” 
“I know.” 
“Sleep well old man.” 
The boy went out. They had eaten with no light on the table and the old man took off 
his trousers and went to bed in the dark. He rolled his trousers up to make a pillow, 
putting the newspaper inside them. He rolled himself in the blanket and slept on the 
other old newspapers that covered the springs of the bed. 
He was asleep in a short time and he dreamed of Africa when he was a boy and the 
long golden beaches and the white beaches, so white they hurt your eyes, and the high 
capes and the great brown mountains. He lived along that coast now every night and in 
his dreams he heard the surf roar and saw the native boats come riding through it. 
He smelled the tar and oakum of the deck as he slept and he smelled the smell of Africa 
that the land breeze brought at morning. 
Usually when he smelled the land breeze he woke up and dressed to go and wake the 
boy. But tonight the smell of the land breeze came very early and he knew it was too early 
in his dream and went on dreaming to see the white peaks of the Islands rising from the 
sea and then he dreamed of the different harbours and roadsteads of the Canary Islands. 
He no longer dreamed of storms, nor of women, nor of great occurrences, nor of 
great fish, nor fights, nor contests of strength, nor of his wife. He only dreamed of places 
now and of the lions on the beach. They played like young cats in the dusk and he loved 
them as he loved the boy. He never dreamed about the boy. He simply woke, looked out 
the open door at the moon and unrolled his trousers and put them on. He urinated outside the shack and then went up the road to wake the boy. He was shivering with the 
morning cold. But he knew he would shiver himself warm and that soon he would be 
rowing. 
The door of the house where the boy lived was unlocked and he opened it and 
walked in quietly with his bare feet. The boy was asleep on a cot in the first room and 
the old man could see him clearly with the light that came in from the dying moon. He 
took hold of one foot gently and held it until the boy woke and turned and looked at him. 
The old man nodded and the boy took his trousers from the chair by the bed and, sitting 
on the bed, pulled them on. 
The old man went out the door and the boy came after him. He was sleepy and the 
old man put his arm across his shoulders and said, “I am sorry.” 
“Qua Va,” the boy said. “It is what a man must do.” 
They walked down the road to the old man’s shack and all along the road, in the dark, 
barefoot men were moving, carrying the masts of their boats. 
When they reached the old man’s shack the boy took the rolls of line in the basket 
and the harpoon and gaff and the old man carried the mast with the furled sail on his 
shoulder. 
“Do you want coffee?” the boy asked. 
“We’ll put the gear in the boat and then get some.” 
They had coffee from condensed milk cans at an early morning place that served 
fishermen. 
“How did you sleep old man?” the boy asked. He was waking up now although it 
was still hard for him to leave his sleep. 
“Very well, Manolin,” the old man said. “I feel confident today.” 
“So do I,” the boy said. “Now I must get your sardines and mine and your fresh baits. 
He brings our gear himself. He never wants anyone to carry anything.” 
“We’re different,” the old man said. “I let you carry things when you were five years 
old.” 
“I know it,” the boy said. “I’ll be right back. Have another coffee. We have credit 
here.” 
He walked off, bare-footed on the coral rocks, to the ice house where the baits were 
stored. 
The old man drank his coffee slowly. It was all he would have all day and he knew 
that he should take it. For a long time now eating had bored him and he never carried a 
lunch. He had a bottle of water in the bow of the skiff and that was all he needed for the 
day.
The boy was back now with the sardines and the two baits wrapped in a newspaper 
and they went down the trail to the skiff, feeling the pebbled sand under their feet, and 
lifted the skiff and slid her into the water. 
“Good luck old man.” 
“Good luck,” the old man said. He fitted the rope lashings of the oars onto the thole 
pins and, leaning forward against the thrust of the blades in the water, he began to row 
out of the harbour in the dark. There were other boats from the other beaches going out 
to sea and the old man heard the dip and push of their oars even though he could not see 
them now the moon was below the hills. 
Sometimes someone would speak in a boat. But most of the boats were silent except 
for the dip of the oars. They spread apart after they were out of the mouth of the harbour 
and each one headed for the part of the ocean where he hoped to find fish. The old man 
knew he was going far out and he left the smell of the land behind and rowed out into the 
clean early morning smell of the ocean. He saw the phosphorescence of the Gulf weed in 
the water as he rowed over the part of the ocean that the fishermen called the great well 
because there was a sudden deep of seven hundred fathoms where all sorts of fish congregated because of the swirl the current made against the steep walls of the floor of 
the ocean. Here there were concentrations of shrimp and bait fish and sometimes schools 
of squid in the deepest holes and these rose close to the surface at night where all the 
wandering fish fed on them. 
In the dark the old man could feel the morning coming and as he rowed he heard the 
trembling sound as flying fish left the water and the hissing that their stiff set wings made 
as they soared away in the darkness. He was very fond of flying fish as they were his 
principal friends on the ocean. He was sorry for the birds, especially the small delicate 
dark terns that were always flying and looking and almost never finding, and he thought, 
the birds have a harder life than we do except for the robber birds and the heavy strong 
ones. Why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean 
can be so cruel? She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so 
suddenly and such birds that fly, dipping and hunting, with their small sad voices are 
made too delicately for the sea. 
He always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in Spanish when 
they love her. Sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always 
said as though she were a woman. Some of the younger fishermen, those who used buoys 
as floats for their lines and had motorboats, bought when the shark livers had 
brought much money, spoke of her as el mar which is masculine. They spoke of her as a 
contestant or a place or even an enemy. But the old man always thought of her as 
feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours, and if she did wild or 
wicked things it was because she could not help them. The moon affects her as it does a 
woman, he thought. 
He was rowing steadily and it was no effort for him since he kept well within his 
speed and the surface of the ocean was flat except for the occasional swirls of the current. 
He was letting the current do a third of the work and as it started to be light he saw he 
was already further out than he had hoped to be at this hour.
I worked the deep wells for a week and did nothing, he thought. Today I’ll work out 
where the schools of bonito and albacore are and maybe there will be a big one with them. 
Before it was really light he had his baits out and was drifting with the current. One bait 
was down forty fathoms. The second was at seventy-five and the third and fourth were 
down in the blue water at one hundred and one hundred and twenty-five fathoms. Each bait 
hung head down with the shank of the hook inside the bait fish, tied and sewed solid and 
all the projecting part of the hook, the curve and the point, was covered with fresh 
sardines. Each sardine was hooked through both eyes so that they made a half-garland on 
the projecting steel. There was no part of the hook that a great fish could feel which was 
not sweet smelling and good tasting. 
The boy had given him two fresh small tunas, or albacores, which hung on the two 
deepest lines like plummets and, on the others, he had a big blue runner and a yellow 
jack that had been used before; but they were in good condition still and had the 
excellent sardines to give them scent and attractiveness. Each line, as thick around as a 
big pencil, was looped onto a green-sapped stick so that any pull or touch on the bait 
would make the stick dip and each line had two forty-fathom coils which could be made 
fast to the other spare coils so that, if it were necessary, a fish could take out over three 
hundred fathoms of line. 
Now the man watched the dip of the three sticks over the side of the skiff and rowed 
gently to keep the lines straight up and down and at their proper depths. It was quite 
light and any moment now the sun would rise. 
The sun rose thinly from the sea and the old man could see the other boats, low on 
the water and well in toward the shore, spread out across the current. Then the sun was 
brighter and the glare came on the water and then, as it rose clear, the flat sea sent it back 
at his eyes so that it hurt sharply and he rowed without looking into it. He looked down 
into the water and watched the lines that went straight down into the dark of the water. 
He kept them straighter than anyone did, so that at each level in the darkness of the 
stream there would be a bait waiting exactly where he wished it to be for any fish that 
swam there. Others let them drift with the current and sometimes they were at sixty 
fathoms when the fishermen thought they were at a hundred. 
But, he thought, I keep them with precision. Only I have no luck any more. But who 
knows? Maybe today. Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather 
be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready. 
The sun was two hours higher now and it did not hurt his eyes so much to look 
into the east. There were only three boats in sight now and they showed very low and far 
inshore. 
All my life the early sun has hurt my eyes, he thought. Yet they are still good. In the 
evening I can look straight into it without getting the blackness. It has more force in the 
evening too. But in the morning it is painful. 
Just then he saw a man-of-war bird with his long black wings circling in the sky 
ahead of him. He made a quick drop, slanting down on his back-swept wings, and then circled again. 
“He’s got something,” the old man said aloud. “He’s not just looking.” 
He rowed slowly and steadily toward where the bird was circling. He did not hurry 
and he kept his lines straight up and down. But he crowded the current a little so that he 
was still fishing correctly though faster than he would have fished if he was not trying to 
use the bird. 
The bird went higher in the air and circled again, his wings motionless. Then he dove 
suddenly and the old man saw flying fish spurt out of the water and sail desperately over 
the surface. 
“Dolphin,” the old man said aloud. “Big dolphin.” 
He shipped his oars and brought a small line from under the bow. It had a wire 
leader and a medium-sized hook and he baited it with one of the sardines. He let it go 
over the side and then made it fast to a ring bolt in the stern. Then he baited another line 
and left it coiled in the shade of the bow. He went back to rowing and to watching the 
long-winged black bird who was working, now, low over the water. 
As he watched the bird dipped again slanting his wings for the dive and then 
swinging them wildly and ineffectually as he followed the flying fish. The old man could 
see the slight bulge in the water that the big dolphin raised as they followed the escaping 
fish. The dolphin were cutting through the water below the flight of the fish and would be 
in the water, driving at speed, when the fish dropped. It is a big school of dolphin, he 
thought. They are widespread and the flying fish have little chance. The bird has no 
chance. The flying fish are too big for him and they go too fast. 
He watched the flying fish burst out again and again and the ineffectual movements 
of the bird. That school has gotten away from me, he thought. They are moving out too 
fast and too far. But perhaps I will pick up a stray and perhaps my big fish is around 
them. My big fish must be somewhere. 
The clouds over the land now rose like mountains and the coast was only a long 
green line with the gray blue hills behind it. The water was a dark blue now, so dark that 
it was almost purple. As he looked down into it he saw the red sifting of the plankton in 
the dark water and the strange light the sun made now. He watched his lines to see them 
go straight down out of sight into the water and he was happy to see so much plankton 
because it meant fish. The strange light the sun made in the water, now that the sun was 
higher, meant good weather and so did the shape of the clouds over the land. But the bird 
was almost out of sight now and nothing showed on the surface of the water but some 
patches of yellow, sun-bleached Sargasso weed and the purple, formalized, iridescent, 
gelatinous bladder of a Portuguese man-of-war floating dose beside the boat. It turned on 
its side and then righted itself. It floated cheerfully as a bubble with its long deadly purple 
filaments trailing a yard behind it in the water. 
“Agua mala,” the man said. “You whore.” 
From where he swung lightly against his oars he looked down into the water and saw the tiny fish that [35] were coloured like the trailing filaments and swam between them 
and under the small shade the bubble made as it drifted. They were immune to its poison. 
But men were not and when same of the filaments would catch on a line and rest there 
slimy and purple while the old man was working a fish, he would have welts and sores on 
his arms and hands of the sort that poison ivy or poison oak can give. But these 
poisonings from the agua mala came quickly and struck like a whiplash. 
The iridescent bubbles were beautiful. But they were the falsest thing in the sea and 
the old man loved to see the big sea turtles eating them. The turtles saw them, 
approached them from the front, then shut their eyes so they were completely carapaced 
and ate them filaments and all. The old man loved to see the turtles eat them and he 
loved to walk on them on the beach after a storm and hear them pop when he stepped on 
them with the horny soles of his feet. 
He loved green turtles and hawk-bills with their elegance and speed and their great 
value and he had a friendly contempt for the huge, stupid loggerheads, yellow in their 
armour-plating, strange in their love-making, and happily eating the Portuguese 
men-of-war with their eyes shut. 
He had no mysticism about turtles although he had gone in turtle boats for many 
years. He was sorry for them all, even the great trunk backs that were as long as the skiff 
and weighed a ton. Most people are heartless about turtles because a turtle’s heart will 
beat for hours after he has been cut up and butchered. But the old man thought, I have 
such a heart too and my feet and hands are like theirs. He ate the white eggs to give 
himself strength. He ate them all through May to be strong in September and October for 
the truly big fish. 
He also drank a cup of shark liver oil each day from the big drum in the shack where 
many of the fishermen kept their gear. It was there for all fishermen who wanted it. Most fishermen hated the taste. But it was no worse than getting up at the hours that they rose 
and it was very good against all colds and grippes and it was good for the eyes. 
Now the old man looked up and saw that the bird was circling again. 
“He’s found fish,” he said aloud. No flying fish broke the surface and there was no 
scattering of bait fish. But as the old man watched, a small tuna rose in the air, 
turned and dropped head first into the water. The tuna shone silver in the sun and after 
he had dropped back into the water another and another rose and they were jumping in 
all directions, churning the water and leaping in long jumps after the bait. They were 
circling it and driving it. 
If they don’t travel too fast I will get into them, the old man thought, and he watched 
the school working the water white and the bird now dropping and dipping into the bait 
fish that were forced to the surface in their panic. 
“The bird is a great help,” the old man said. Just then the stern line came taut under 
his foot, where he had kept a loop of the line, and he dropped his oars and felt tile weight 
of the small tuna’s shivering pull as he held the line firm and commenced to haul it in. 
The shivering increased as he pulled in and he could see the blue back of the fish in the 
water and the gold of his sides before he swung him over the side and into the boat. He lay in the stern in the sun, compact and bullet shaped, his big, unintelligent eyes staring 
as he thumped his life out against the planking of the boat with the quick shivering 
strokes of his neat, fast-moving tail. The old man hit him on the head for kindness 
and kicked him, his body still shuddering, under the shade of the stern. 
“Albacore,” he said aloud. “He’ll make a beautiful bait. He’ll weigh ten pounds.” 
He did not remember when he had first started to talk aloud when he was by himself. 
He had sung when he was by himself in the old days and he had sung at night sometimes 
when he was alone steering on his watch in the smacks or in the turtle boats. He had 
probably started to talk aloud, when alone, when the boy had left. But he did not 
remember. When he and the boy fished together they usually spoke only when it was 
necessary. They talked at night or when they were storm-bound by bad weather. It was 
considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always 
considered it so and respected it. But now he said his thoughts aloud many times since 
there was no one that they could annoy. 
“If the others heard me talking out loud they would think that I am crazy,” he said 
aloud. “But since I am not crazy, I do not care. And the rich have radios to talk to them in 
their boats and to bring them the baseball.” 
Now is no time to think of baseball, he thought. Now is the time to think of only 
one thing. That which I was born for. There might be a big one around that school, he 
thought. I picked up only a straggler from the albacore that were feeding. But they are 
working far out and fast. Everything that shows on the surface today travels very fast and 
to the north-east. Can that be the time of day? Or is it some sign of weather that I do not 
know? 
He could not see the green of the shore now but only the tops of the blue hills that 
showed white as though they were snow-capped and the clouds that looked like high 
snow mountains above them. The sea was very dark and the light made prisms in the 
water. The myriad flecks of the plankton were annulled now by the high sun and it was 
only the great deep prisms in the blue water that the old man saw now with his lines 
going straight down into the water that was a mile deep. 
The tuna, the fishermen called all the fish of that species tuna and only distinguished 
among them by their proper names when they came to sell them or to trade them for 
baits, were down again. The sun was hot now and the old man felt it on the back of 
his neck and felt the sweat trickle down his back as he rowed. 
I could just drift, he thought, and sleep and put a bight of line around my toe to wake 
me. But today is eighty-five days and I should fish the day well. 
Just then, watching his lines, he saw one of the projecting green sticks dip sharply. 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes,” and shipped his oars without bumping the boat. He reached out 
for the line and held it softly between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand. He felt 
no strain nor weight and he held the line lightly. Then it came again. This time it was a 
tentative pull, not solid nor heavy, and he knew exactly what it was. One hundred 
fathoms down a marlin was eating the sardines that covered the point and the shank of the hook where the hand-forged hook projected from the head of the small tuna. 
The old man held the line delicately, and softly, with his left hand, unleashed it from 
the stick. Now he could let it run through his fingers without the fish feeling any tension. 
This far out, he must be huge in this month, he thought. Eat them, fish. Eat them. 
Please eat them. 
How fresh they are and you down there six hundred feet in that cold water in the 
dark. Make another turn in the dark and come back and eat them. He felt the light 
delicate pulling and then a harder pull when a sardine’s head must have been more 
difficult to break from the hook. Then there was nothing. 
“Come on,” the old man said aloud. “Make another turn. Just smell them. Aren’t they 
lovely? Eat them good now and then there is the tuna. Hard and cold and lovely. Don’t be 
shy, fish. Eat them.” 
He waited with the line between his thumb and his finger, watching it and the other 
lines at the same time for the fish might have swum up or down. Then came the same 
delicate pulling touch again. 
“He’ll take it,” the old man said aloud. “God help him to take it.” 
He did not take it though. He was gone and the old man felt nothing. 
“He can’t have gone,” he said. “Christ knows he can’t have gone. He’s making a turn. 
Maybe he 
has been hooked before and he remembers something of it. 
Then he felt the gentle touch on the line and he was happy. 
“It was only his turn,” he said. “He’ll take it.” 
He was happy feeling the gentle pulling and then he felt something hard and 
unbelievably heavy. It was the weight of the fish and he let the line slip down, down, 
down, unrolling off the first of the two reserve coils. As it went down, slipping lightly 
through the old man’s fingers, he still could feel the great weight, though the pressure of 
his thumb and finger were almost imperceptible. “What a fish,” he said. “He has it 
sideways in his mouth now and he is moving off with it.” 
Then he will turn and swallow it, he thought. He did not say that because he knew 
that if you said a good thing it might not happen. He knew what a huge fish this was and 
he thought of him moving away in the darkness with the tuna held crosswise in his 
mouth. At that moment he felt him stop moving but the weight was still there. Then the 
weight increased and he gave more line. He tightened the pressure of his thumb and 
finger for a moment and the weight increased and was going straight down. 
“He’s taken it,” he said. “Now I’ll let him eat it well.” 
He let the line slip through his fingers while he reached down with his left hand and 
made fast the free end of the two reserve coils to the loop of the two reserve coils of the 
next line. Now he was ready. He had three forty-fathom coils of line in reserve now, as well as the coil he was using. 
“Eat it a little more,” he said. “Eat it well.” 
Eat it so that the point of the hook goes into your heart and kills you, he thought. 
Come up easy and let me put the harpoon into you. All right. Are you ready? Have you 
been long enough at table? 
“Now!” he said aloud and struck hard with both hands, gained a yard of line and 
then struck again and again, swinging with each arm alternately on the cord with all the 
strength of his arms and the pivoted weight of his body. 
Nothing happened. The fish just moved away slowly and the old man could not raise 
him an inch. His line was strong and made for heavy fish and he held it against his hack 
until it was so taut that beads of water were jumping from it. Then it began to make a 
slow hissing sound in the water and he still held it, bracing himself against the 
thwart and leaning back against the pull. The boat began to move slowly off toward the 
north-west. 
The fish moved steadily and they travelled slowly on the calm water. The other baits 
were still in the water but there was nothing to be done. 
“I wish I had the boy” the old man said aloud. “I’m being towed by a fish and I’m the 
towing bitt. I could make the line fast. But then he could break it. I must hold him all I 
can and give him line when he must have it. Thank God he is travelling and not going 
down.” 
What I will do if he decides to go down, I don’t know. What I’ll do if he sounds and 
dies I don’t know. But I’ll do something. There are plenty of things I can do. 
He held the line against his back and watched its slant in the water and the skiff 
moving steadily to the north-west. 
This will kill him, the old man thought. He can’t do this forever. But four hours later 
the fish was still swimming steadily out to sea, towing the skiff, and the old man was still 
braced solidly with the line across his back. 
“It was noon when I hooked him,” he said. “And I have never seen him.” 
He had pushed his straw hat hard down on his head before he hooked the fish and it 
was cutting his forehead. He was thirsty too and he got down on his knees and, being 
careful not to jerk on the line, moved as far into the bow as he could get and reached the 
water bottle with one hand. He opened it and drank a little. Then he rested against the 
bow. He rested sitting on the un-stepped mast and sail and tried not to think but only to 
endure. 
Then he looked behind him and saw that no land was visible. That makes no 
difference, he thought. I can always come in on the glow from Havana. There are two 
more hours before the sun sets and maybe he will come up before that. If he doesn’t 
maybe he will come up with the moon. If he does not do that maybe he will come up with 
the sunrise. I have no cramps and I feel strong. It is he that has the hook in his mouth.
But what a fish to pull like that. He must have his mouth shut tight on the wire. I wish I 
could see him. I wish I could see him only once to know what I have against me. 
The fish never changed his course nor his direction all that night as far as the 
man could tell from watching the stars. It was cold after the sun went down and the old 
man’s sweat dried cold on his back and his arms and his old legs. During the day he had 
taken the sack that covered the bait box and spread it in the sun to dry. After the sun 
went down he tied it around his neck so that it hung down over his back and he 
cautiously worked it down under the line that was across his shoulders now. The sack 
cushioned the line and he had found a way of leaning forward against the bow so that he 
was almost comfortable. The position actually was only somewhat less intolerable; but he 
thought of it as almost comfortable. 
I can do nothing with him and he can do nothing with me, he thought. Not as long as 
he keeps this up. 
Once he stood up and urinated over the side of the skiff and looked at the stars and 
checked his course. The line showed like a phosphorescent streak in the water straight 
out from his shoulders. They were moving more slowly now and the glow of Havana was 
not so strong, so that he knew the current must be carrying them to the eastward. If I lose 
the glare of Havana we must be going more to the eastward, he thought. For if the fish’s 
course held true I must see it for many more hours. I wonder how the baseball came 
out in the grand leagues today, he thought. It would be wonderful to do this with a radio. 
Then he thought, think of it always. Think of what you are doing. You must do nothing 
stupid. 
Then he said aloud, “I wish I had the boy. To help me and to see this.” 
No one should be alone in their old age, he thought. But it is unavoidable. I must 
remember to eat the tuna before he spoils in order to keep strong. Remember, no matter 
how little you want to, that you must eat him in the morning. Remember, he said to 
himself. 
During the night two porpoises came around the boat and he could hear them rolling 
and blowing. He could tell the difference between the blowing noise the male made and 
the sighing blow of the female. 
“They are good,” he said. “They play and make jokes and love one another. They are 
our brothers like the flying fish.” 
Then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked. He is wonderful and strange 
and who knows how old he is, he thought. Never have I had such a strong fish nor one 
who acted so strangely. Perhaps he is too wise to jump. He could ruin me by jumping or 
by a wild rush. But perhaps he has been hooked many times before and he knows 
that this is how he should make his fight. He cannot know that it is only one man against 
him, nor that it is an old man. But what a great fish he is and what will he bring in the 
market if the flesh is good. He took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his 
fight has no panic in it. I wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as I am? 
He remembered the time he had hooked one of a pair of marlin. The male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish, the female, made a wild, 
panic-stricken, despairing fight that soon exhausted her, and all the time the male had 
stayed with her, crossing the line and circling with her on the surface. He had stayed so 
close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which was sharp as a 
scythe and almost of that size and shape. When the old man had gaffed her and clubbed 
her, holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and dubbing her across the top of her 
head until her colour turned to a colour almost like the backing of mirrors, and then, with 
the boy’s aid, hoisted her aboard, the male fish had stayed by the side of the boat. Then, 
while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon, the male fish 
jumped high into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down 
deep, his lavender wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and all his wide 
lavender stripes showing. He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed. 
That was the saddest thing I ever saw with them, the old man thought. The boy was 
sad too and we begged her pardon and butchered her promptly. 
“I wish the boy was here,” he said aloud and settled himself against the rounded 
planks of the bow and felt the strength of the great fish through the line he held across his 
shoulders moving steadily toward whatever he had chosen. 
When once, through my treachery, it had been necessary to him to make a choice, 
the old man thought. 
His choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and 
traps and treacheries. My choice was to go there to find him beyond all people. Beyond all 
people in the world. Now we are joined together and have been since noon. And no one to 
help either one of us. 
Perhaps I should not have been a fisherman, he thought. But that was the thing that 
I was born for. I must surely remember to eat the tuna after it gets light. 
Some time before daylight something took one of the baits that were behind 
him. He heard the stick break and the line begin to rush out over the gunwale of the skiff. 
In the darkness he loosened his sheath knife and taking all the strain of the fish on his 
left shoulder he leaned back and cut the line against the wood of the gunwale. Then he 
cut the other line closest to him and in the dark made the loose ends of the reserve coils 
fast. He worked skillfully with the one hand and put his foot on the coils to hold them as 
he drew his knots tight. Now he had six reserve coils of line. There were two from each 
bait he had severed and the two from the bait the fish had taken and they were all 
connected. 
After it is light, he thought, I will work back to the forty-fathom bait and cut it away 
too and link up the reserve coils. I will have lost two hundred fathoms of good Catalan 
cardel and the hooks and leaders. That can be replaced. But who replaces this fish if I 
hook some fish and it cuts him off? 
I don’t know what that fish was that took the bait just now. It could have been a 
marlin or a broadbill or a shark. I never felt him. I had to get rid of him too fast. 
Aloud he said, “I wish I had the boy.” 
But you haven’t got the boy, he thought. You have only yourself and you had 
better work back to the last line now, in the dark or not in the dark, and cut it away and 
hook up the two reserve coils. 
So he did it. It was difficult in the dark and once the fish made a surge that pulled 
him down on his face and made a cut below his eye. The blood ran down his cheek a little 
way. But it coagulated and dried before it reached his chin and he worked his way back to 
the bow and rested against the wood. He adjusted the sack and carefully worked the line 
so that it came across a new part of his shoulders and, holding it anchored with his 
shoulders, he carefully felt the pull of the fish and then felt with his hand the progress of 
the skiff through the water. 
I wonder what he made that lurch for, he thought. The wire must have slipped on the 
great hill of his back. Certainly his back cannot feel as badly as mine does. But he cannot 
pull this skiff forever, no matter how great he is. Now everything is cleared away that 
might make trouble and I have a big reserve of line; all that a man can ask. 
“Fish,” he said softly, aloud, “I’ll stay with you until I am dead.” 
He’ll stay with me too, I suppose, the old man thought and he waited for it to be 
light. It was cold now in the time before daylight and he pushed against the wood to be 
warm. I can do it as long as he can, he thought. And in the first light the line extended out 
and down into the water. The boat moved steadily and when the first edge of the sun rose 
it was on the old man’s right shoulder. 
“He’s headed north,” the old man said. The current will have set us far to the 
eastward, he thought. I wish he would turn with the current. That would show that he 
was tiring. 
When the sun had risen further the old man realized that the fish was not tiring. 
There was only one favorable sign. The slant of the line showed he was swimming at a 
lesser depth. That did not necessarily mean that he would jump. But he might. 
“God let him jump,” the old man said. “I have enough line to handle him.” 
Maybe if I can increase the tension just a little it will hurt him and he will jump, he 
thought. Now that it is daylight let him jump so that he’ll fill the sacks along his backbone 
with air and then he cannot go deep to die. 
He tried to increase the tension, but the line had been taut up to the very edge of 
the breaking point since he had hooked the fish and he felt the harshness as he leaned 
back to pull and knew he could put no more strain on it. I must not jerk it ever, he 
thought. Each jerk widens the cut the hook makes and then when he does jump he might 
throw it. Anyway I feel better with the sun and for once I do not have to look into it. 
There was yellow weed on the line but the old man knew that only made an added 
drag and he was pleased. It was the yellow Gulf weed that had made so much 
phosphorescence in the night. 
“Fish,” he said, “I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you dead before 
this day ends.”
Let us hope so, he thought. 
A small bird came toward the skiff from the north. He was a warbler and flying very 
low over 
the water. The old man could see that he was very tired. The bird made the stern of 
the boat and rested there. Then he flew around the old man’s head and rested on the line 
where he was more comfortable. “How old are you?” the old man asked the bird. “Is this 
your first trip?”
The bird looked at him when he spoke. He was too tired even to examine the 
line and he teetered on it as his delicate feet gripped it 
 The hills across the valley of the Ebro were long and white. On this side there was no shade and 
no trees and the station was between two lines of rails in the sun. Close against the side of the 
station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain, made of strings of bamboo 
beads, hung across the open door into the bar, to keep out flies. The American and the girl with 
him sat at a table in the shade, outside the building. It was very hot and the express from 
Barcelona would come in forty minutes. It stopped at this junction for two minutes and went to 
Madrid. 
"What should we drink?" the girl asked. She had taken off her hat and put it on the table. 
"It’s pretty hot," the man said. 
"Let’s drink beer." 
"Dos cervezas," the man said into the curtain. 
"Big ones?" a woman asked from the doorway. 
"Yes. Two big ones." 
The woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads. She put the felt pads and the beer 
glass on the table and looked at the man and the girl. The girl was looking off at the line of hills. 
They were white in the sun and the country was brown and dry. 
"They look like white elephants," she said. 
"I’ve never seen one," the man drank his beer. 
"No, you wouldn’t have." 
"I might have," the man said. "Just because you say I wouldn’t have doesn’t prove anything." 
The girl looked at the bead curtain. "They’ve painted something on it," she said. "What does it 
say?" 
"Anis del Toro. It’s a drink." 
"Could we try it?" 
The man called "Listen’ through the curtain. The woman came out from the bar. 
"Four reales." "We want two Anis del Toro." 
"With water?" 
"Do you want it with water?" 
"I don't know," the girl said. "Is it good with water?" 
"It’s all right." 
"You want them with water?" asked the woman. 
"Yes, with water." 
"It tastes like liquorice," the girl said and put the glass down. 
"That’s the way with everything." 
"Yes," said the girl. "Everything tastes of liquorice. Especially all the things you’ve waited so 
long for, like absinthe." 
"Oh, cut it out." 
"You started it," the girl said. "I was being amused. I was having a fine time." 
"Well, let’s try and have a fine time." 
"All right. I was trying. I said the mountains looked like white elephants. Wasn’t that bright?" 
"That was bright." 
"I wanted to try this new drink. That’s all we do, isn’t it – look at things and try new drinks?" 
"I guess so." 
The girl looked across at the hills. "They’re lovely hills," she said. "They don’t really look like white elephants. I just meant the 
colouring of their skin through the trees." 
"Should we have another drink?" 
"All right." 
The warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table. 
"The beer’s nice and cool," the man said. 
"It’s lovely," the girl said. 
"It’s really an awfully simple operation, Jig," the man said. "It’s not really an operation at all." 
The girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on. 
"I know you wouldn’t mind it, Jig. It’s really not anything. It’s just to let the air in." 
The girl did not say anything. 
"I’ll go with you and I’ll stay with you all the time. They just let the air in and then it’s all 
perfectly natural." 
"Then what will we do afterwards?" 
"We’ll be fine afterwards. Just like we were before." 
"What makes you think so?" 
"That’s the only thing that bothers us. It’s the only thing that’s made us unhappy." 
The girl looked at the bead curtain, put her hand out and took hold of two of the strings of beads. 
"And you think then we’ll be all right and be happy." 
"I know we will. Yon don’t have to be afraid. I’ve known lots of people that have done it." 
"So have I," said the girl. "And afterwards they were all so happy." 
"Well," the man said, "if you don’t want to you don’t have to. I wouldn’t have you do it if you 
didn’t want to. But I know it’s perfectly simple." 
"And you really want to?" 
"I think it’s the best thing to do. But I don’t want you to do it if you don’t really want to." 
"And if I do it you’ll be happy and things will be like they were and you’ll love me?" 
"I love you now. You know I love you." 
"I know. But if I do it, then it will be nice again if I say things are like white elephants, and you’ll 
like it?" 
"I’ll love it. I love it now but I just can’t think about it. You know how I get when I worry." 
"If I do it you won’t ever worry?" 
"I won’t worry about that because it’s perfectly simple." 
"Then I’ll do it. Because I don’t care about me." 
"What do you mean?" 
"I don’t care about me." 
"Well, I care about you." 
"Oh, yes. But I don’t care about me. And I’ll do it and then everything will be fine." 
"I don’t want you to do it if you feel that way." 
The girl stood up and walked to the end of the station. Across, on the other side, were fields of 
grain and trees along the banks of the Ebro. Far away, beyond the river, were mountains. The 
shadow of a cloud moved across the field of grain and she saw the river through the trees. 
"And we could have all this," she said. "And we could have everything and every day we make it 
more impossible." 
"What did you say?" 
"I said we could have everything." 
"We can have everything." "No, we can’t." 
"We can have the whole world." 
"No, we can’t." 
"We can go everywhere." 
"No, we can’t. It isn’t ours any more." 
"It’s ours." 
"No, it isn’t. And once they take it away, you never get it back." 
"But they haven’t taken it away." 
"We’ll wait and see." 
"Come on back in the shade," he said. "You mustn’t feel that way." 
"I don’t feel any way," the girl said. "I just know things." 
"I don’t want you to do anything that you don’t want to do -" 
"Nor that isn’t good for me," she said. "I know. Could we have another beer?" 
"All right. But you’ve got to realize – " 
"I realize," the girl said. "Can’t we maybe stop talking?" 
They sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of the valley and 
the man looked at her and at the table. 
"You’ve got to realize," he said, " that I don’t want you to do it if you don’t want to. I’m perfectly 
willing to go through with it if it means anything to you." 
"Doesn’t it mean anything to you? We could get along." 
"Of course it does. But I don’t want anybody but you. I don’t want anyone else. And I know it’s 
perfectly simple." 
"Yes, you know it’s perfectly simple." 
"It’s all right for you to say that, but I do know it." 
"Would you do something for me now?" 
"I’d do anything for you." 
"Would you please please please please please please please stop talking?" 
He did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station. There were labels 
on them from all the hotels where they had spent nights. 
"But I don’t want you to," he said, "I don’t care anything about it." 
"I’ll scream," the girl siad. 
The woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the 
damp felt pads. "The train comes in five minutes," she said. 
"What did she say?" asked the girl. 
"That the train is coming in five minutes." 
The girl smiled brightly at the woman, to thank her. 
"I’d better take the bags over to the other side of the station," the man said. She smiled at him. 
"All right. Then come back and we’ll finish the beer." 
He picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks. He 
looked up the tracks but could not see the train. Coming back, he walked through the bar-room, 
where people waiting for the train were drinking. He drank an Anis at the bar and looked at the 
people. They were all waiting reasonably for the train. He went out through the bead curtain. She 
was sitting at the table and smiled at him. 
"Do you feel better?" he asked. 
"I feel fine," she said. "There’s nothing wrong with me. I feel fine.’ 
It was very late and everyone had left the cafe except an old man who sat in the shadow the leaves of the tree made against the electric light. In the day time the street was dusty, but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the difference. The two waiters inside the cafe knew that the old man was a little drunk, and while he was a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying, so they kept watch on him. 

"Last week he tried to commit suicide," one waiter said. 

"Why?" 

"He was in despair." 

"What about?" 

"Nothing." 

"How do you know it was nothing?" 

"He has plenty of money." 

They sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the cafe and looked at the terrace where the tableswere all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind. A girl and a soldier went by in the street. The street light shone on the brass number on his collar. The girl wore no head covering and hurried beside him. 

"The guard will pick him up," one waiter said. 

"What does it matter if he gets what he's after?" 

"He had better get off the street now. The guard will get him. They went by five minutes ago." 

The old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass. The younger waiter went over to him. 

"What do you want?" 

The old man looked at him. "Another brandy," he said. 

"You'll be drunk," the waiter said. The old man looked at him. The waiter went away. 

"He'll stay all night," he said to his colleague. "I'm sleepy now.I never get into bed before three o'clock. He should have killed himself last week." 

The waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from thecounter inside the cafe and marched out to the old man's table. Heput down the saucer and poured the glass full of brandy. 

"You should have killed yourself last week," he said to the deafman. The old man motioned with his finger. "A little more," hesaid. The waiter poured on into the glass so that the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the top saucer of the pile."Thank you," the old man said. The waiter took the bottle back inside the cafe. He sat down at the table with his colleague again.

"He's drunk now," he said. 

"He's drunk every night." 

"What did he want to kill himself for?" 

"How should I know." 

"How did he do it?" 

"He hung himself with a rope." 

"Who cut him down?" 

"His niece." 

"Why did they do it?" 

"Fear for his soul." 

"How much money has he got?" "He's got plenty." 

"He must be eighty years old." 

"Anyway I should say he was eighty." 

"I wish he would go home. I never get to bed before three o'clock.What kind of hour is that to go to bed?" 

"He stays up because he

 It was now lunch time and they were all sitting under the double green fly of the dining tent pretending that nothing had happened.

“Will you have lime juice or lemon squash?” Macomber asked.

“I’ll have a gimlet,” Robert Wilson told him.

“I’ll have a gimlet too. I need something,” Macomber’s wife said.

“I suppose it’s the thing to do,” Macomber agreed. “Tell him to make three gimlets.”

The mess boy had started them already, lifting the bottles out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated wet in the wind that blew through the 

trees that shaded the tents.

“What had I ought to give them?” Macomber asked.

“A quid would be plenty,” Wilson told him. “You don’t want to spoil them.”

“Will the headman distribute it?”

“Absolutely.”

Francis Macomber had, half an hour before, been carried to his tent from the edge of the camp in triumph on the arms and shoulders of the 

cook, the personal boys, the skinner and the porters. The gun-bearers had taken no part in the demonstration. When the native boys put him 

down at the door of his tent, he had shaken all their hands, received their congratulations, and then gone into the tent and sat on the bed until 

his wife came in. She did not speak to him when she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his face and hands in the portable wash basin 

outside and go over to the dining tent to sit in a comfortable canvas chair in the breeze and the shade.

“You’ve got your lion,” Robert Wilson said to him, “and a damned fine one too.”

Mrs. Macomber looked at Wilson quickly. She was an extremely handsome and well kept woman of the beauty and social position which had, 

five years before, commanded five thousand dollars as the price of endorsing, with photographs, a beauty product which she had never used. 

She had been married to Francis Macomber for eleven years.

“He is a good lion, isn’t he?” Macomber said. His wife looked at him now. She looked at both these men as though she had never seen them 

before.

One, Wilson, the white hunter, she knew she had never truly seen before. He was about middle height with sandy hair, a stubby mustache, a 

very red face and extremely cold blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved merrily when he smiled. He smiled at her now 

and she looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in the loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in loops where 

the left breast pocket should have been, at his big brown hands, his old slacks, his very dirty boots and back to his red face again. She noticed 

where the baked red of his face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by his Stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the 

tent pole.

“Well, here’s to the lion,” Robert Wilson said. He smiled at her again and, not smiling, she looked curiously at her husband.

Francis Macomber was very tall, very well built if you did not mind that length of bone, dark, his hair cropped like an oarsman, rather thin-lipped, 

and was considered handsome. He was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that Wilson wore except that his were new, he was thirty-five 

years old, kept himself very fit, was good at court games, had a number of big-game fishing records, and had just shown himself, very publicly, to 

be a coward.

“Here’s to the lion,” he said. “I can’t ever thank you for what you did.”

Margaret, his wife, looked away from him and back to Wilson.

“Let’s not talk about the lion,” she said.

Wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she smiled at him.

“It’s been a very strange day,” she said. “Hadn’t you ought to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon? You told me that, you know.”
“Might put it on,” said Wilson.

“You know you have a very red face, Mr. Wilson,” she told him and smiled again.

“Drink,” said Wilson.

“I don’t think so,” she said. “Francis drinks a great deal, but his face is never red.”

“It’s red today,” Macomber tried a joke.

“No,” said Margaret. “It’s mine that’s red today. But Mr. Wilson’s is always red.

“Must be racial,” said Wilson. “I say, you wouldn’t like to drop my beauty as a topic, would you?”

“I’ve just started on it.”

“Let’s chuck it,” said Wilson.

“Conversation is going to be so difficult,” Margaret said.

“Don’t be silly, Margot,” her husband said.

“No difficulty,” Wilson said. “Got a damn fine lion.”

Margot looked at them both and they both saw that she was going to cry. Wilson had seen it coming for a long time and he dreaded it. 

Macomber was past dreading it.

“I wish it hadn’t happened. Oh, I wish it hadn’t happened,” she said and started for her tent. She made no noise of crying but they could see that 

her shoulders were shaking under the rose-colored, sun-proofed shirt she wore.

“Women upset,” said Wilson to the tall man. “Amounts to nothing. Strain on the nerves and one thing’n another.”

“No,” said Macomber. “I suppose that I rate that for the rest of my life now.”

“Nonsense. Let’s have a spot of the giant killer,” said Wilson. “Forget the whole thing. Nothing to it anyway.”

“We might try,” said Macomber. “I won’t forget what you did for me though.”

“Nothing,” said Wilson. All nonsense.”

So they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched under some wide-topped acacia trees with a boulder-strewn cliff behind them, and 

a stretch of grass that ran to the bank of a boulder-filled stream in front with forest beyond it, and drank their just-cool lime drinks and avoided 

one another’s eyes while the boys all knew about it now and when he saw Macomber’s personal boy looking curiously at his master while he was 

putting dishes on the table he snapped at him in Swahili. The boy turned away with his face blank.

“What were you telling him?” Macomber asked.

“Nothing. Told him to look alive or I’d see he got about fifteen of the best.”

“What’s that? Lashes?”

“It’s quite illegal,” Wilson said. “You’re supposed to fine them.”

“Do you still have them whipped?”

“Oh, yes. They could raise a row if they chose to complain. But they don’t. They prefer it to the fines.”

“How strange!” said Macomber.
“Not strange, really,” Wilson said. “Which would you rather do? Take a good birching or lose your pay?”

Then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before Macomber could answer he went on, “We all take a beating every day, you know, one way or 

another.”

This was no better. “Good God,” he thought. “I am a diplomat, aren’t I?”

“Yes, we take a beating,” said Macomber, still not looking at him. “I’m awfully sorry about that lion business. It doesn’t have to go any further, 

does it? I mean no one will hear about it, will they?”

“You mean will I tell it at the Mathaiga Club?” Wilson looked at him now coldly. He had not expected this. So he’s a bloody four-letter man as well 

as a bloody coward, he thought. I rather liked him too until today. But how is one to know abut an American?

“No,” said Wilson. “I’m a professional hunter. We never talk about our clients. You can be quite easy on that. It’s supposed to be bad form to ask 

us not to talk though.”

He had decided now that to break would be much easier. He would eat, then, by himself and could read a book with his meals. They would eat 

by themselves. He would see them through the safari on a very formal basis—what was it the French called it? Distinguished consideration—

and it would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this emotional trash. He’d insult him and make a good clean break. Then he could 

read a book with his meals and he’d still be drinking their whisky. That was the phrase for it when a safari went bad. You ran into another while 

hunter and you asked, “How is everything going?” and he answered, “Oh, I’m still drinking their whisky,” and you knew everything had gone to 

pot.

“I’m sorry,” Macomber said and looked at him with his American face that would stay adolescent until it became middle-aged, and Wilson noted 

his crew-cropped hair, fine eyes only faintly shifty, good nose, thin lips and handsome jaw. “I’m sorry I didn’t realize that. There are lots of things I 

don’t know.”

So what could he do, Wilson thought. He was all ready to break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was apologizing after he had just 

insulted him. He made one more attempt. “Don’t worry about me talking,” he said. “I have a living to make. You know in Africa no woman ever 

misses her lion and no white man ever bolts.

“I bolted like a rabbit,” Macomber said.

Now what in hell were you going to do about a man who talked like that, Wilson wondered.

Wilson looked at Macomber with his flat, blue, machinegunner’s eyes and the other smiled back at him. He had a pleasant smile if you did not 

notice how his eyes showed when he was hurt.

“Maybe I can fix it up on buffalo,” he said. “We’re after them next, aren’t we?

“In the morning if you like,” Wilson told him. Perhaps he had been wrong. This was certainly the way to take it. You most certainly could not tell a 

damned thing about an American. He was all for Macomber again. If you could forget the morning. But, of course, you couldn’t. The morning had 

been about as bad as they come.

“Here comes the Memsahib,” he said. She was walking over from her tent looking refreshed and cheerful and quite lovely. She had a very 

perfect oval face, so perfect that you expected her to be stupid. But she wasn’t stupid, Wilson thought, no, not stupid.

“How is the beautiful red-faced Mr. Wilson? Are you feeling better, Francis, my pearl?”

“Oh, much,” said Macomber.

“I’ve dropped the whole thing,” she said, sitting down at the table. “What importance is there to whether Francis is any good at killing lions? 

That’s not his trade. That’s Mr. Wilson’s trade. Mr. Wilson is really very impressive killing anything. You do kill anything, don’t you?”

“Oh, anything,” said Wilson. “Simply anything.” They are, he thought, the hardest in the world; the hardest, the cruelest, the most predatory and 

the most attractive and their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they have hardened. Or is it that they pick men they can handle? 

They can’t know that much at the age they marry, he thought. He was grateful that he had gone through his education on American women
before now because this was a very attractive one.

“We’re going after buff in the morning,” he told her.

“I”m coming,” she said.

“No, you’re not.”

“Oh, yes, I am. Mayn’t I, Francis?”

“Why not stay in camp”

“Not for anything,” she said. “I wouldn’t miss something like today for anything.

When she left, Wilson was thinking, when she went off to cry, she seemed a hell of a fine woman. She seemed to understand, to realize, to be 

hurt to him and for herself and to know how things really stood. She is away for twenty minutes and now she is back, simply enameled in that 

American female cruelty. They are the damnedest women. Really the damnedest.

“We’ll put on another show for you tomorrow,” Francis Macomber said.

“You’re not coming,” Wilson said.

“You’re very mistaken,” she told him. “And I want so to see

 So, Robert Wilson thought to himself, she is giving him a ride, isn’t she? Or do you suppose that’s her idea of putting up a good show? How 

should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward? She’s damn cruel but they’re all cruel. They govern, of course, and to 

govern one has to be cruel sometimes. Still, I’ve seen enough of their damn terrorism.

“Have some more eland,” he said to her politely.

That afternoon, late, Wilson and Macomber went out in the motor car with the native driver and the two gun-bearers. Mrs. Macomber stayed in 

the camp. It was too hot to go out, she said, and she was going with them in the early morning. As they drove off Wilson saw her standing under 

the big tree, looking pretty rather than beautiful in her faintly rosy khaki, her dark hair drawn back off her forehead and gathered in a knot low on 

her neck, her face as fresh, he thought, as though she were in England. She waved to them as the car went off through the swale of high grass 

and curved around through the trees into the small hills of orchard bush.

In the orchard bush they found a herd of impala, and leaving the car they stalked one old ram with long, wide-spread horns and Macomber killed 

it with a very creditable shot that knocked the buck down at a good two hundred yards and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over 

one another’s backs in long, leg-drawn-up leaps as unbelievable and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams.

“That was a good shot,” Wilson said. “They’re a small target.”

“Is it a worth-while head?” Macomber asked.

“It’s excellent,” Wilson told him. “You shoot like that and you’ll have no trouble.”

“Do you think we’ll find buffalo tomorrow?”

“There’s good chance of it. They feed out early in the morning and with luck we may catch them in the open.”

I’d like to clear away that lion business,” Macomber said.

“It’s not very pleasant to have your wife see you do something like that.”

I should think it would be even more unpleasant to do it, Wilson thought, wife or no wife, or the talk about it having done it. But he said, “I 

wouldn’t think about that any more. Any one could be upset by his first lion. That’s all over.”

But that night after dinner and a whisky and soda by the fire before going to bed, as Francis Macomber lay on his cot with the mosquito bar over 

him and listened to the night noises it was not all over. It was neither all over nor was it beginning. It was there exactly as it happened with some 

parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably ashamed at it. But more than shame he felt cold, hollow fear in him. The fear was still 

there like a cold slimy hollow in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been and it made him feel sick. It was still there with him now.

It had started the night before when he had wakened and heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river. It was a deep sound and at the 

and there were sort of coughing grunts that made him seem just outside the tent, and when Francis Macomber woke in the night to hear it he 

was afraid. He could hear his wife breathing quietly, asleep. There was no one to tell he was afraid, nor to be afraid with him, and, lying alone, 

he did not know the Somali proverb that says a brave man is always frightened three times by a lion; when he first sees his track, when he first 

hears him roar and when he first confronts him. Then while they were eating breakfast by lantern light out in the dining tent, before the sun was 

up, the lion roared again and Francis thought he was just at the edge of camp.

“Sounds like an old-timer,” Robert Wilson said, looking up from his kippers and coffee. “Listen to him cough.”

“Is he very close?”

“A mile or so up the stream.”

“Will we see him?”

“We’ll have a look.”

“Does his roaring carry that far? It sounds as though he were right in camp.”

“Carries a hell of a long way,” said Robert Wilson. “It’s strange the way it carries. Hope he’s a shootable cat. The boys said there was a very big 

one about here.”

“If I get a shot, where should I hit him,” Macomber asked, “to stop him?”

“In the shoulders,” Wilson said. “In the neck if you can make it. Shoot for bone. Break him down.”

“I hope I can place it properly,” Macomber said.

“You shoot very well, “Wilson told him. “Take your time. Make sure of him. The first one in is the one that counts.”

“What range will it be?”

“Can’t tell. Lion has something to say about that. Won’t shoot unless it’s close enough so you can make sure.”

“At under a hundred yards?” Macomber asked.

Wilson looked at him quickly.

“Hundred’s about right. Might have to take him a bit under. Shouldn’t chance a shot at much over that. A hundred’s a decent range. You can hit 

him wherever you want at that. Here comes the Memsahib.”

“Good morning,” she said. “Are we going after that lion?”

“As soon as you deal with your breakfast,” Wilson said.

“How are you feeling?”

“Marvelous,” she said. “I’m very excited.”

“I’ll just go and see that everything is ready,” Wilson went off. As he left the lion roared again. 

“Noisy beggar,” Wilson said. “We’ll put a stop to that.”

“What’s the matter, Francis?” his wife asked him.

“Nothing,” Macomber said.

“Yes, there is,” she said. “What are you upset about?”

“Nothing,” he said.

“Tell me,” she looked at him. “Don’t you feel well?”

“It’s that damned roaring,” she said. “It’s been going on all night, you know.”

“Why didn’t you wake me, she said. I’d love to heard it.

“I’ve got to kill the damned thing,” Macomber said, miserably.

“Well, that’s what you’re out here for, isn’t it?”

“Yes. But I’m nervous. Hearing the thing roar gets on my nerves.”

“Well then, as Wilson said, kill him and stop his roaring.”

“Yes, darling,” said Francis Macomber. “It sounds easy, doesn’t it?”

“You’re not afraid, are you?”

“Of course not. But I’m nervous from hearing him roar all night.”
“You’ll kill him marvelously,” she said. “I know you will. I’m awfully anxious to see it.”

“Finish your breakfast and we’ll be starting.”

It’s not light yet,” she said. “This is a ridiculous hour.”

Just then as the lion roared in a deep-chested moaning, suddenly guttural, ascending vibration that seemed to shake the air and ended in a sigh 

and a heavy, deep-chested grunt.

“He sounds almost here,” Macomber’s wife said.

“My God,” said Macomber. “I hate that damned noise.”

“It’s very impressive.”

“Impressive. It’s frightful.”

Robert Wilson came up then carrying his short, ugly, shockingly big-bored .505 Gibbs and grinning.

“Come on,” he said. “Your gun-bearer has your Springfield and the big gun. Everything’s in the car. Have you solids?”

“Yes.”

“I’m ready,” Mrs. Macomber said.

“Must make him stop that racket,” Wilson said. “You got in front. The Memsahib can sit back here with me.”

They climbed into the motor car and, in the gray first day-light, moved off up the river through the trees. Macomber opened the breech of his 

rifle and saw had metal-cased bullets, shut the bolt and put the rifle on safety. He saw his hand was trembling. He felt in his pocket for more 

cartridges and moved his fingers over the cartridges in the loops of his tunic front. He turned back to where Wilson sat in the rear seat of the 

doorless, box-bodied motor car beside his wife, them both grinning with excitement, and Wilson leaned forward and whispered, “See the birds 

dropping. Means the old boy has left his kill.”

On the far bank of the stream Macomber could see, above the trees, vultures circling and plummeting down.

“Chances are he’ll come to drink along here,” Wilson whispered. Before he goes to lay up. Keep an eye out.”

They were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream which here cut deeply to its boulder-filled bed, and they wound in and out through big 

trees as they drove. Macomber was watching the opposite bank when he felt Wilson take hold of his arm. The car stopped.

“There he is,” he heard the whisper. “Ahead and to the right. Get out and take him. He’s marvelous lion.”

Macomber saw the lion now. He was standing almost broadside, his great head up and turned toward them. The early morning breeze that blew 

toward them was just stirring his dark mane, and the lion looked huge, silhouetted on the rise of bank in the gray morning light, his shoulders 

heavy, his barrel of a body bulking smoothly.

“How far is he?” asked Macomber, raising his rifle.

“About seventy-five. Get out and take him.”

“Why not shoot from where I am?”

“You don’t shoot them from cars,” he heard Wilson saying in his car. “Get out. He’s not going to stay there all day.”

Macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side of the front seat, onto the step and down onto the ground. The lion still stood looking 

majestically and coolly toward this object that his eyes only showed in silhouette, bulking like some superrhino. There was no man smell carried 

toward his and he watched the object, moving his great head a little from side to side. Then watching the object, not afraid, but hesitating before 

going down the bank to drink with such a thing opposite him, he saw a man figure detach itself from it and he turned his heavy head and swung away toward the cover for the trees as he heard a cracking crash and felt the slam of a .30-06 220-grain solid bullet that bit his flank and ripped 

in sudden hot scalding nausea through his stomach. He trotted, heavy, big-footed, swinging wounded lull-bellied, the trees toward the tall grass 

and cover, and the crash came again to go past him ripping the air apart. Then it crashed again and he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and 

ripped on through, blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth, and he galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch and not be seen and 

make them bring the crashing thing close enough so he could make a rush and get the man that held it.

Macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out of the car. He only knew his hands were shaking and as he walked away from the car 

it was almost impossible for him to make his legs move. They were stiff in the thighs, but he could feel the muscles fluttering. He raised the rifle, 

sighted on the junction of the lion’s head and shoulders and pulled the trigger. Nothing happened though he pulled until he thought his finger 

would break. Then he knew he had the safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over he moved another frozen pace forward, 

and the lion seeing his silhouette now clear of the silhouette of the car, turned an started off at a trot, and, as Macomber fired, he heard a whunk 

that meant that the bullet was home; but the lion kept on going. Macomber shot again and every one saw the bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond 

the trotting lion. He shot again, remembering to lower his aim, and they all heard the bullet hit, and the lion went into a gallop and was in the tall 

grass before he had the bolt pushed forward.

Macomber stood there 

 “Not much choice,” said Wilson. “We can’t bring the car over. Bank’s too steep. We’ll let him stiffen up a bit and then you and I’ll go in and have a 

look for him.”

“Can’t we set the grass on fire?” Macomber asked.

“Too green.”

“Can’t we send beaters?”

Wilson looked at him appraisingly. “Of course we can,” he said. “But it’s just a touch murderous. You see we know the lion’s wounded. You can 

drive an unwounded lion—he’ll move on ahead of a noise—but a wounded lion’s going to charge. You can’t see him until you’re right on him. 

He’ll make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldn’t think would hide a hare. You can’t very well send boys in there to that sort of a show. 

Somebody bound to get mauled.” 

“What about the gun-bearers?”

“Oh, they’ll go with us. It’s their shauri. You see, they signed on for it. They don’t look too happy though, do they?”

“I don’t want to go in there,” said Macomber. It was out before he knew he’d said it.

“Neither do I,” said Wilson very cheerily. “Really no choice though.” Then, as an afterthought, he glanced at Macomber and saw suddenly how 

he was trembling and the pitiful look on his face.

“You don’t have to go in, of course,” he said. “that’s what I’m hired for, you know. That’s why I’m so expensive.”

“You mean you’d go in by yourself? Why not leave him there?”

Robert Wilson, whose entire occupation had been with the lion ands the problem he presented, and who had not been thinking about Macomber 

except to note that he was rather windy, suddenly felt as though he had opened the wrong door in a hotel and seen something shameful.

“What do you mean?”

“Why not just leave him?”

“You mean pretend to ourselves he hasn’t been hit?”

“No. Just drop it.

“It isn’t done.”

“Why not?”

“For one thing, he’s certain to be suffering. For another, some one else might run on to him.”

“I see.”

“But you don’t have to have anything to do with it.”

“I’d like to,” Macomber said. “I’m just scared, you know.”

“I’ll go ahead when we go in,” Wilson said, “with Kongoni tracking. You keep behind me and a little to one side. Chances are we’ll hear him growl. 

If we see him we’ll both shoot. Don’t worry about anything. I’ll keep you backed up. As a matter of fact, you know, perhaps you’d better not go. It 

might be much better. Why don’t you go over and join the Memsahib while I just get it over with?”

“No, I want to go.”

“All right,” said Wilson. “But don’t go in if you don’t want to. This is my shauri now, you know.”

“I want to go,” said Macomber.
They sat under a tree and smoked.

“What to go back and speak to the Memsahib while we’re waiting?” Wilson asked.

“No.”

“I’ll just step back and tell her to be patient.”

“Good,” said Macomber. He sat there, sweating under his arms, his mouth dry, his stomach hollow feeling, wanting to find courage to tell Wilson 

to go on and finish off the lion without him. He could not know that Wilson was furious because he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and 

sent him back to his wife. While he sat there Wilson came up. “I have your big gun,” he said. “Take it. We’ve given him time, I think. Come on.”

Macomber took the big gun and Wilson said”

“Keep behind me and about five yards to the right and do exactly as I tell you.” Then he spoke in Swahili to the two gun-bearers who looked the 

picture of gloom.

“Let’s go,” he said.

“Could I have a drink of water?” Macomber asked. Wilson spoke to the older gun-bearer, who wore a canteen on his belt, and the man 

unbuckled it, unscrewed the top and handed it to Macomber, who took it noticing how heavy it seemed and how hairy and shoddy the felt 

covering was in his hand. He raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the flat-topped trees behind it. A breeze was blowing 

toward them and the grass rippled gently in the wind. He looked at the gun-bearer and he could see the gun-bearer was suffering too with fear.

Thirty-five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened out along the ground. His ears where back and his only movement was a slight twitching 

up and down of his long, black-tufted tail. He had turned at bay as soon as he had reached this cover and he was sick with the wound through 

his full belly, and weakening with the wound through his lungs that brought a thin foamy red to his mouth each time he breathed. His flanks 

were wet and hot and flies were on the little openings the solid bullets had made in his tawny hide, and his big yellow eyes, narrowed with hate, 

looked straight ahead, only blinking when the pain came as he breathed, and his claws dug in the soft baked earth. All of him, pain, sickness, 

hatred and all of his remaining strength, was tightening into an absolute concentration for a rush. He could hear the men talking and he waited, 

gathering all of himself into this preparation for a charge as soon as the men would come into the grass. As he heard their voices his tail stiffened 

to twitch up and down, and, as they came into the edge of the grass, he made a coughing grunt and charged.

Kongoni, the old gun-bearer, in the lead watching the blood spoor, Wilson watching the grass for any movement, his big gun ready, the second 

gun-bearer looking ahead and listening, Macomber close to Wilson, his rifle cocked, they had just moved into the grass when Macomber hear 

the blood-choked coughing grunt, and saw the swishing rush in the grass. The next thing he knew he was running; running wildly, in panic in the 

open, running toward the stream.

He heard the ca-ra-wong! of Wilson’s big rifle, and again in a second crashing carawong! and turning saw the lion, horrible-looking now, with half 

his head seeming to be gone, crawling toward Wilson in the edge of the tall grass while the red-faced man worked the belt on the short ugly rifle 

and aimed carefully as another blasting carawong! came from the muzzle, and the crawling, heavy, yellow bulk of the lion stiffened and the huge, 

mutilated head slid forward and Macomber, standing by himself in the clearing where he had run, holding a loaded rifle, while two black men and 

a white man looked back at him in contempt, knew the lion was dead. He came toward Wilson, his tallness all seeming a naked reproach, and 

Wilson looked at him and said:

“What to take pictures?”

“No,” he said.

That was all any one had said until they reached the motor car. Then Wilson had said:

“Hell of a fine lion. Boys will skin him out. We might as well stay here in the shade.”

Macomber’s wife had not looked at him nor he at her and he had sat by her in the back seat with Wilson sitting in the front seat. Once he had 

reached over and taken his wife’s hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand from his. Looking across the stream to where the 

gun-bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had been able to see the whole thing. While they sat there his wife had reached 

forward and put her hand on Wilson’s shoulder. He turned and she had leaned forward over the low seat and kissed him on the mouth.
“Oh, I say,” said Wilson, going redder than his natural baked color.

“Mr. Robert Wilson,” she said. “The beautiful red-faced Mr. Robert Wilson.”

Then she sat down beside Macomber again and looked away across the stream to where the lion lay, with uplifted, white-muscled, tendon-
marked naked forearms, and white bloating belly, as the black men fleshed away the skin. Finally the gun-bearer brought the skin over, wet and 

heavy, and climbed in behind with it, rolling it up before they got in, and the motor car started. No one had said anything more until they were 

back in camp.

That was the story of the lion. Macomber did not know how the lion had felt before he started his rush, nor during it when the unbelievable smash 

of the .505 with a muzzle velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth, nor what kept him coming after that, when the second ripping crash had 

smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on toward the crashing, blasting thing that had destroyed him. Wilson knew something 

about it and only expressed it by saying, “Damned fine lion,” but Macomber did not know how Wilson felt abut things either. He did not know how 

his wife felt except that she was through with him.

His wife had been through with him before but it never lasted. He was very wealthy, and would be much wealthier, and he knew she would not 

leave him ever now. That was one of the few things that he really knew. He knew about that, about motorcycles—that was earliest—about 

motor cars, about duck-shooting, about fishing, trout, salmon and big-sea, about sex in books, many books, too many books, about all court 

games, about dogs, not much about horses, about hanging on to his money, abut most of the other things his world dealt in, and about his wife 

not leaving him. His wife had been a great beauty and she was still a great beauty in Africa, but she was not a great enough beauty any more 

at home to be able to leave him and better herself and she knew it and he knew it. She had missed the chance to leave him and he knew it. If 

he had been better with women she would probably have started to worry about him getting another new, beautiful wife; but she knew too much 

about him to worry about him either. Also he had always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing about him if it were not the most 

sinister.

All in all they were known as a comparatively happily married couple, one of those whose disruption is often rumored but never occurs, and as 

the society columnist put it, they were adding more than a spice of adventure to their much envied and ever enduring romance by a Safari in 

what was known as Darkest Africa until the Martin Johnsons lighted it on so many silver screens where they were pursuing Old Simba the lion, 

the buffalo, Tembo the elephant and as well collecting specimens for the Museum of Natural History. This same columnist had reported them 

on the verge as least three times in the past and they had been. But they always made it up. They had a sound basis of union. Margot was too 

beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber had too much money for Margot ever to leave him.

It was now about three o’clock in the morning and Francis Macomber, who had been asleep a little while after he had stopped thinking about the 

lion, wakened and then slept again, woke suddenly, frightened in a dream of the bloody-headed lion standing over him, and listening while his 

heart pounded, he realized that his wife was not in the other cot in the tent. He lay awake with the knowledge of two hours.

At the end of that time his wife came into the tent, lifted her mosquito bar and crawled cozily into bed.

“Where have you been?” Macomber asked in the darkness.

“Hello,” she said. “Are you awake?”

“Where have you been?”

“I just went out to get
 “Nothing as far as I’m concerned. But please let’s not talk, darling, because I’m very sleepy.”

“You think that I’ll take anything.”

“I know you will, sweet.”

“Well, I won’t.”

“Please, darling, let’s not talk. I’m so very sleepy.”

“There wasn’t going to be any of that. You promised there wouldn’t be.”

“Well, there is now,” she said sweetly.

“You said if we made this trip that there would be none of that. You promised.”

“Yes, darling. That’s the way I meant it to be. But the trip was spoiled yesterday. We don’t have to talk about it, do we?”

“You don’t wait long when you have an advantage, do you?”

“Please let’s not talk. I’m so sleepy, darling.”

“I’m going to talk.”

“Don’t mind me then, because I’m going to sleep.” And she did.

At breakfast they were all three at the table before daylight and Francis Macomber found that, of all the many men that he had hated, he hated 

Robert Wilson the most.

“Sleep well?” Wilson asked in his throaty voice, filling a pipe.

“Did you?”

“Topping,” the white hunter told him.

You bastard, thought Macomber, you insolent bastard.

So she woke him when she came in, Wilson thought, looking at them both with his flat, cold eyes. Well, why doesn’t he keep his wife where she 

belongs?” What does he think I am, a bloody plaster saint? Let him keep her where she belongs. It’s his own fault.

“Do you think we’ll find buffalo?” Margot asked, pushing away a dish of apricots.”

“Chance of it,” Wilson said and smiled at her. “Why don’t you stay in camp?”

“Not for anything,” she told him.

“Why not order her to stay in camp?” Wilson said to Macomber.

“Your order her,” said Macomber coldly.

“Let’s not have any ordering, nor,” turning to Macomber, “any silliness, Francis,” Margot said quite pleasantly.

“Are you ready to start?” Macomber asked.

“Any time,” Wilson told him. “Do you want the Memsahib to go?”

“Does it make any difference whether I do or not?”
The hell with it, thought Robert Wilson. The utter complete hell with it. So this is what it’s going to be like. Well, this is what it’s going to be like, 

then.

“Makes no difference,” he said.

“You’re sure you wouldn’t like to stay in camp with her yourself and let me go out and hunt the buffalo? Macomber asked.

“Can’t do that,” said Wilson. “Wouldn’t talk rot if I were you.”

“I’m not talking rot. I’m disgusted.”

“Bad word, disgusted.”

“Francis, will you please try to speak sensibly!” his wife said.

“I speak too damned sensibly,” Macomber said. “Did you ever eat such filthy food?”

“Something wrong with the food?” asked Wilson quietly.

“No more than with everything else.”

“I’d pull yourself together, laddybuck,” Wilson said very quietly. “There’s a boy waits at table that understands a little English.”

“The hell with him.”

Wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away, speaking a few words in Swahili to one of the gun-bearers who was standing waiting for 

him. Macomber and his wife sat on at the table. He was staring at his coffee cup.

“If you make a scene I’ll leave you, darling,” Margot said quietly.

“No, you won’t.”

“You can try it and see.”

“You won’t leave me.”

“No,” she said. “I won’t leave you and you’ll behave yourself.”

“Behave myself? That’s a way to talk. Behave myself.”

“Yes. Behave yourself.”

“Why don’t you try behaving?”

“I’ve tried it so long. So very long.”

“I hate that red-faced swine,” Macomber said. “I loathe the sight of him.”

“He’s really very nice.”

“Oh, shut up,” Macomber almost shouted. Just then the car came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the driver and the two gun-
bearers got out. Wilson walked over and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table.

“Going, shooting?” he asked.

“Yes,” said Macomber, standing up. “Yes.”

“Better bring a woolly. It will be cool in the car,” Wilson said.
“I’ll get my leather jacket,” Margot said.

“The boy has it,” Wilson told her. He climbed into the front with the driver and Francis Macomber and his wife sat, not speaking, in the back seat.

Hope the silly beggar doesn’t take a notion to blow the back of my head off, Wilson thought to himself. Women are a nuisance on safari.

The car was grinding down to cross the river at a pebbly ford in the gray daylight and then climbed, angling up the steep bank, where Wilson had 

ordered a way shoveled out the day before so they could reach the parklike wooded rolling country on the far side.

It was a good morning, Wilson thought. There was a heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low bushes he could smell the 

odor of the crushed fronds. It was an odor like verbena and he liked this early morning smell of the dew, the crushed bracken and the look of the 

tree trunks showing black through the early morning mist, as the car made its way through the untracked, parklike country. He had put the two 

in the back seat out of his mind now and was thinking about buffalo. The buffalo that he was after stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where 

it was impossible to get a shot, but in the night they fed out into an open stretch of country and if he could come between them and their swamp 

with the car, Macomber would have a good chance at them in the open. He did not want to hunt buff or anything else with Macomber at all, but 

he was a professional hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his time. If they got buff today there would only be rhino to come and the 

poor man would have gone through his dangerous game and things might pick up. He’d have nothing more to do with the woman and Macomber 

would get over that too. He must have gone through plenty of that before by the look of things. Poor beggar. He must have a way of getting over 

it. Well, it was the poor sod’s own bloody fault.

He, Robert Wilson, carried a double size cot on safari to accommodate any windfalls he might receive. He had hunted for a certain clientele, 

the international, fast, sporting set, where the women did not feel they were getting their money’s worth unless they had shared that cot with the 

white hunter. He despised them when he was away from them although he liked some of them well enough at the time, but he made his living by 

them; and their standards were his standards as long as they were hiring him.

They were his standards in all except the shooting. He had his own standards about the killing and they could live up to them or get some one 

else to hunt them. He knew, too, that they all respected him for this. This Macomber was an odd one though. Damned if he wasn’t. Now the 

wife. Well, the wife. Yes, the wife. Hm, the wife. Well he’s dropped all that. He looked around at them. Macomber sat grim and furious. Margot 

smiled at him. She looked younger today, more innocent and fresher and not so professionally beautiful. What’s in her heart God knows, Wilson 

thought. She hadn’t talked much last night. At that it was a pleasure to see her.

The motor car climbed up a slight rise and went on through the trees and then out into a grassy prairie-like opening and kept in the shelter of the 

trees along the edge, the driver going slowly and Wilson looking carefully out across the prairie and all along its far side. He stopped the car and 

studied the opening with his field glasses. Then he motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly along, the driver avoiding wart-hog 

holes and driving around the mud castles ants had built. Then, looking across the opening, Wilson suddenly turned and said,

“By God, there they are!”

And looking where he pointed, while the car jumped forward and Wilson spoke in rapid Swahili to the driver, Macomber saw three huge, black 

animals looking almost cylindrical in their long heaviness, like big black tank cars, moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie. 

They moved at a stiff-necked, stiff bodied gallop and he could see the upswept wide black horns on their heads as they galloped heads out; the 

heads not moving.

“They’re three old bulls,” Wilson said. “We’ll cut them off before they get to the swamp.”

The car was going a wild forty-five miles an hour across the open and as Macomber watched, the buffalo got bigger and bigger until he could 

see the gray, hairless, scabby look of one huge bull and how his neck was a part of his shoulders and the shiny black of his horns as he galloped 

a little behind the others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait; and then, the car swaying as though it had just jumped a road, they 

drew up close ands he could see the plunging hugeness of the bull, and the dust in his sparsely haired hide, the wide boss of horn and his 

outstretched, wide-nostrilled muzzle, and he was raising his rifle when Wilson shouted, “Not from the car, you fool!” and he had no fear, only 

hatred of Wilson, while the brakes clamped on and the car skidded, plowing sideways to an almost stop and Wilson was out on one side and 

he on the other, stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding-by of the earth, and then he was shooting at the bull as he moved away, hearing the 

bullets whunk into him, emptying his riffle at him as he moved steadily away, finally remembering to get his shots forward into the shoulder, and 

as he fumbled to reload, he saw the bull was down. Down on his knees, his big head tossing, and seeing the other two still galloping he shot at 

the leader and hit him. He shot again and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as Wilson shot and saw the leading bull slide forward onto 

his nose.

“Get that other,” Wilson said. “Now you’re shooting!”
But the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop and he missed, throwing a spout of dirt, and Wilson missed and the dust rose in a 

cloud and Wilson shouted, “Come on.” He’s too far!” and grabbed his arm and they were in the car again, Macomber and Wilson hanging on the 

sides and rocketing swayingly over the uneven ground, drawing up on the steady, plunging, heavy-necked, straight-moving gallop of the bull.

They were behind him and Macomber was filling his rifle, dropping shells onto the ground, jamming it, clearing the jam, then they were almost 

up with the bull when Wilson yelled “Stop,” and the car skidded so that it almost swung over and Macomber fell forward as he aimed into the 

galloping, rounded black back, aimed and shot again, then again, then again, and the bullets, all of them hitting, had no effect on the buffalo that 

he could see. Then Wilson shot, the roar deafening him, and he could see the bull stagger. Macomber shot again, aiming carefully, and down he 

came, onto his knees.
“All right,” Wilson said. “Nice work. That’s the three.”

Macomber felt a drunken elation.

“How many times did you shoot?” he asked.

“Just three,” Wilson said. “You killed the first bull. The biggest one. I helped you finish the other two. Afraid they might have got into cover. You 

had them killed. I was just mopping up a little. You shot damn well.
“Let’s go to the car,” said Macomber. “I want a drink.”

“Got to finish off that buff He lay flat on the brown, pine-needled floor of the forest, his chin on his folded arms, and high overhead the wind blew in the tops of the pine trees. The mountainside sloped gently where he lay; but below it was steep and he could see the dark of the oiled road winding through the pass. There was a stream alongside the road and far down the pass he saw a mill beside the stream and the falling water of the dam, white in the summer sunlight.
"Is that the mill?" he asked.
"Yes."
"I do not remember it."
"It was built since you were here. The old mill is farther down; much below the pass."
He spread the photostated military map out on the forest floor and looked at it carefully. The old man looked over his shoulder. He was a short and solid old man in a black peasant's smock and gray iron-stiff trousers and he wore rope-soled shoes. He was breathing heavily from the climb and his hand rested on one of the two heavy packs they had been carrying.
"Then you cannot see the bridge from here."
"No," the old man said. "This is the easy country of the pass where the stream flows gently. Below, where the road turns out of sight in the trees, it drops suddenly and there is a steep gorge-"
"I remember."
"Across this gorge is the bridge."
"And where are their posts?"
"There is a post at the mill that you see there."
The young man, who was studying the country, took his glasses from the pocket of his faded, khaki flannel shirt, wiped the lenses with a handkerchief, screwed the eyepieces around until the boards of the mill showed suddenly clearly and he saw the wooden bench beside the door; the huge pile of sawdust that rose behind the open shed where the circular saw was, and a stretch of the flume that brought the logs down from the mountainside on the other bank of the stream. The stream showed clear and smooth-looking in the glasses and, below the curl of the falling water, the spray from the dam was blowing in the wind.
"There is no sentry."
"There is smoke coming from the millhouse," the old man said. "There are also clothes hanging on a line."
"I see them but I do not see any sentry."
"Perhaps he is in the shade," the old man explained. "It is hot there now. He would be in the shadow at the end we do not see."
"Probably. Where is the next post?"
"Below the bridge. It is at the roadmender's hut at kilometer five from the top of the pass."
"How many men are here?" He pointed at the mill.
"Perhaps four and a corporal."
"And below?"
"More. I will find out."
"And at the bridge?"
"Always two. One at each end."
"We will need a certain number of men," he said. "How many men can you get?"
"I can bring as many men as you wish," the old man said. "There are many men now here in the hills."
"How many?"
"There are more than a hundred. But they are in small bands. How many men will you need?"
"I will let you know when we have studied the bridge."
"Do you wish to study it now?"
"No. Now I wish to go to where we will hide this explosive until it is time. I would like to have it hidden in utmost security at a distance no greater than half an hour from the bridge, if that is possible."
"That is simple," the old man said. "From where we are going, it will all be downhill to the bridge. But now we must climb a little in seriousness to get there. Are you hungry?"
"Yes," the young man said. "But we will eat later. How are you called? I have forgotten." It was a bad sign to him that he had forgotten.
"Anselmo," the old man said. "I am called Anselmo and I come from Barco de Avila. Let me help you with that pack."
The young man, who was tall and thin, with sun-streaked fair hair, and a wind- and sun-burned face, who wore the sun-faded flannel shirt, a pair of peasant's trousers and rope-soled shoes, leaned over, put his arm through one of the leather pack straps and swung the heavy pack up onto his shoulders. He worked his arm through the other strap and settled the weight of the pack against his back. His shirt was still wet from where the pack had rested.
"I have it up now," he said. "How do we go?"
"We climb," Anselmo said.

Bending under the weight of the packs, sweating, they climbed steadily in the pine forest that covered the mountainside. There was no trail that the young man could see, but they were working up and around the face of the mountain and now they crossed a small stream and the old man went steadily on ahead up the edge of the rocky stream bed. The climbing now was steeper and more difficult, until finally the stream seemed to drop down over the edge of a smooth granite ledge that rose above them and the old man waited at the foot of the ledge for the young man to come up to him.
"How are you making it?"
"All right," the young man said. He was sweating heavily and his thigh muscles were twitchy from the steepness of the climb.
"Wait here now for me. I go ahead to warn them. You do not want to be shot at carrying that stuff."
"Not even in a joke," the young man said. "Is it far?"
"It is very close. How do they call thee?"
"Roberto," the young man answered. He had slipped the pack off and lowered it gently down between two boulders by the stream bed.
"Wait here, then, Roberto, and I will return for you."
"Good," the young man said. "But do you plan to go down this way to the bridge?"
"No. When we go to the bridge it will be by another way. Shorter and easier."
"I do not want this material to be stored too far from the bridge."
"You will see. If you are not satisfied, we will take another place."
"We will see," the young man said.
He sat by the packs and watched the old man climb the ledge. It was not hard to climb and from the way he found hand-holds without searching for them the young man could see that he had climbed it many times before. Yet whoever was above had been very careful not to leave any trail.
The young man, whose name was Robert Jordan, was extremely hungry and he was worried. He was often hungry but he was not usually worried because he did not give any importance to what happened to himself and he knew from experience how simple it was to move behind the enemy lines in all this country. It was as simple to move behind them as it was to cross through them, if you had a good guide. It was only giving importance to what happened to you if you were caught that made it difficult; that and deciding whom to trust. You had to trust the people you worked with completely or not at all, and you had to make decisions about the trusting. He was not worried about any of that. But there were other things.
This Anselmo had been a good guide and he could travel wonderfully in the mountains. Robert Jordan could walk well enough himself and he knew from following him since before daylight that the old man could walk him to death. Robert Jordan trusted the man, Anselmo, so far, in everything except judgment. He had not yet had an opportunity to test his judgment, and, anyway, the judgment was his own responsibility. No, he did not worry about Anselmo and the problem of the bridge was no more difficult than many other problems. He knew how to blow any sort of bridge that you could name and he had blown them of all sizes and constructions. There was enough explosive and all equipment in the two packs to blow this bridge properly even if it were twice as big as Anselmo reported it, as he remembered it when he had walked over it on his way to La Granja on a walking trip in 1933, and as Golz had read him the description of it night before last in that upstairs room in the house outside of the Escorial.
"To blow the bridge is nothing," Golz had said, the lamplight on his scarred, shaved head, pointing with a pencil on the big map. "You understand?"
"Yes, I understand."
"Absolutely nothing. Merely to blow the bridge is a failure."
"Yes, Comrade General."
"To blow the bridge at a stated hour based on the time set for the attack is how it should be done. You see that naturally. That is your right and how it should be done."
Golz looked at the pencil, then tapped his teeth with it.
Robert Jordan had said nothing.
"You understand that is your right and how it should be done," Golz went on, looking at him and nodding his head. He tapped on the map now with the pencil. "That is how I should do it. That is what we cannot have."
"Why, Comrade General?"
"Why?" Golz said, angrily. "How many attacks have you seen and you ask me why? What is to guarantee that my orders are not changed? What is to guarantee that the attack is not annulled? What is to guarantee that the attack is not postponed? What is to guarantee that it starts within six hours of when it should start? Has any attack ever been as it should?"
"It will start on time if it is your attack," Robert Jordan said.
"They are never my attacks," Golz said. "I make them. But they are not mine. The artillery is not mine. I must put in for it. I have never been given what I ask for even when they have it to give. That is the least of it. There are other things. You know how those people are. It is not necessary to go into all of it. Always there is something. Always some one will interfere. So now be sure you understand."
"So when is the bridge to be blown?" Robert Jordan had asked.
"After the attack starts. As soon as the attack has started and not before. So that no reinforcements will come up over that road." He pointed with his pencil. "I must know that nothing will come up over that road."
"And when is the attack?"
"I will tell you. But you are to use the date and hour only as an indication of a probability. You must be ready for that time. You will blow the bridge after the attack has started. You see?" he indicated with the pencil. "That is the only road on which they can bring up reinforcements. That is the only road on which they can get up tanks, or artillery, or even move a truck toward the pass which I attack. I must know that bridge is gone. Not before, so it can be repaired if the attack is postponed. No. It must go when the attack starts and I must know it is gone. There are only two sentries. The man who will go with you has just come from there. He is a very reliable man, they say. You will see. He has people in the mountains. Get as many men as you need. Use as few as possible, but use enough. I do not have to tell you these things."
"And how do I determine that the attack has started?"
"It is to be made with a full "I believe you do," Golz said. "I will not make you any little speech. Let us now have a drink. So much talking makes me very thirsty, Comrade Hordan. You have a funny name in Spanish, Comrade Hordown."
"How do you say Golz in Spanish, Comrade General?"
"Hotze," said Golz grinning, making the sound deep in his throat as though hawking with a bad cold. "Hotze," he croaked. "Comrade Heneral Khotze. If I had known how they pronounced Golz in Spanish I would pick me out a better name before I come to war here. When I think I come to command a division and I can pick out any name I want and I pick out Hotze. Heneral Hotze. Now it is too late to change. How do you like partizan work?" It was the Russian term for guerilla work behind the lines.
"Very much," Robert Jordan said. He grinned. "It is very healthy in the open air."
"I like it very much when I was your age, too," Golz said. "They tell me you blow bridges very well. Very scientific. It is only hearsay. I have never seen you do anything myself. Maybe nothing ever happens really. You really blow them?" he was teasing now. "Drink this," he handed the glass of Spanish brandy to Robert Jordan. "You really blow them?"
"Sometimes."
"You better not have any sometimes on this bridge. No, let us not talk any more about this bridge. You understand enough now about that bridge. We are very serious so we can make very strong jokes. Look, do you have many girls on the other side of the lines?"
"No, there is no time for girls."
"I do not agree. The more irregular the service, the more irregular the life. You have very irregular service. Also you need a haircut."
"I have my hair cut as it needs it," Robert Jordan said. He would be damned if he would have his head shaved like Golz. "I have enough to think about without girls," he said sullenly.
"What sort of uniform am I supposed to wear?" Robert Jordan asked.
"None," Golz said. "Your haircut is all right. I tease you. You are very different from me," Golz had said and filled up the glasses again.
"You never think about only girls. I never think at all. Why should I? I am General Sovietique. I never think. Do not try to trap me into thinking."
Some one on his staff, sitting on a chair working over a map on a drawing board, growled at him in the language Robert Jordan did not understand.
"Shut up," Golz had said, in English. "I joke if I want. I am so serious is why I can joke. Now drink this and then go. You understand, huh?"
"Yes," Robert Jordan had said. "I understand."
They had shaken hands and he had saluted and gone out to the staff car where the old man was waiting asleep and in that car they had ridden over the road past Guadarrama, the old man still asleep, and up the Navacerrada road to the Alpine Club hut where he, Robert Jordan, slept for three hours before they started.
That was the last he had seen of Golz with his strange white face that never tanned, his hawk eyes, the big nose and thin lips and the shaven head crossed with wrinkles and with scars. Tomorrow night they would be outside the Escorial in the dark along the road; the long lines of trucks loading the infantry in the darkness; the men, heavy loaded, climbing up into the trucks; the machine-gun sections lifting their guns into the trucks; the tanks being run up on the skids onto the long-bodied tank trucks; pulling the Division out to move them in the night for the attack on the pass. He would not think about that. That was not his business. That was Golz's business. He had only one thing to do and that was what he should think about and he must think it out clearly and take everything as it came along, and not worry. To worry was as bad as to be afraid. It simply made things more difficult.
He sat now by the stream watching the clear water flowing between the rocks and, across the stream, he noticed there was a thick bed of watercress. He crossed the stream, picked a double handful, washed the muddy roots clean in the current and then sat down again beside his pack and ate the clean, cool green leaves and the crisp, peppery-tasting stalks. He knelt by the stream and, pushing his automatic pistol around on his belt to the small of his back so that it would not be wet, he lowered himself with a hand on each of two boulders and drank from the stream. The water was achingly cold.
Pushing himself up on his hands he turned his head and saw the old man coming down the ledge. With him was another man, also in a black peasant's smock and the dark gray trousers that were almost a uniform in that province, wearing rope-soled shoes and with a carbine slung over his back. This man was bareheaded. The two of them came scrambling down the rock like goats.
They came up to him and Robert Jordan got to his feet.
"Salud, Camarada," he said to the man with the carbine and smiled.
"Salud," the other said, grudgingly. Robert Jordan looked at the man's heavy, beard-stubbled face. It was almost round and his head was round and set close on his shoulders. His eyes were small and set too wide apart and his ears were small and set close to his head. He was a heavy man about five feet ten inches tall and his hands and feet were large. His nose had been broken and his mouth was cut at one corner and the line of the scar across the upper lip and lower jaw showed through the growth of beard over his face.
The old man nodded his head at this man and smiled.
"He is the boss here," he grinned, then flexed his arms as though to make the muscles stand out and looked at the man with the carbine in a half-mocking admiration. "A very strong man."
"I can see it," Robert Jordan said and smiled again. He did not like the look of this man and inside himself he was not smiling at all.
"What have you to justify your identity?" asked the man with the carbine.
Robert Jordan unpinned a safety pin that ran through his pocket flap and took a folded paper out of the left breast pocket of his flannel shirt and handed it to the man, who opened it, looked at it doubtfully and turned it in his hands.

So he cannot read, Robert Jordan noted.
"Look at the seal," he said.
The old man pointed to the seal and the man with the carbine studied it, turning it in his fingers.
"What seal is that?"
"Have you never seen it?"
"No."
"There are two," said Robert Jordan. "One is S. I. M., the service of the military intelligence. The other is the General Staff."
"Yes, I have seen that seal before. But here no one commands but me," the other said sullenly. "What have you in the packs?"
"Dynamite," the old man said proudly. "Last night we crossed the lines in the dark and all day we have carried this dynamite over the mountain."
"I can use dynamite," said the man with the carbine. He handed back the paper to Robert Jordan and looked him over. "Yes. I have use for dynamite. How much have you brought me?"
"I have brought you no dynamite," Robert Jordan said to him evenly. "The dynamite is for another purpose. What is your name?"
"What is that to you?"
"He is Pablo," said the old man. The man with the carbine looked at them both sullenly.
"Good. I have heard much good of you," said Robert Jordan.
"What have you heard of me?" asked Pablo.
"I have heard that you are an excellent guerilla leader, that you are loyal to the republic and prove your loyalty through your acts, and that you are a man both serious and valiant. I bring you greetings from the General Staff."
"Where did you hear all this?" asked Pablo. Robert Jordan registered that he was not taking any of the flattery.
"I heard it from Buitrago to the Escorial," he said, naming all the stretch of country on the other side of the lines.
"I know no one in Buitrago nor in Escorial," Pablo told him.
"There are many people on the other side of the mountains who were not there before. Where are you from?"
"Avila. What are you going to do with the dynamite?"
"Blow up a bridge."
"What bridge?"
"That is my business."
"If it is in this territory, it is my business. You cannot blow bridges close to where you live. You must live in one place and operate in another. I know my business. One who is alive, now, after a year, knows his business."
"This is my business," Robert Jordan said. "We can discuss it together. Do you wish to help us with the sacks?"
"No," said Pablo and shook his head.
The old man turned toward him suddenly and spoke rapidly and furiously in a dialect that Robert Jordan could just follow. It was like reading Quevedo. Anselmo was speaking old Castilian and it went something like this, "Art thou a brute? Yes. Art thou a beast? Yes, many times Hast thou a brain? Nay. None. Now we come for something of consummate importance and thee, with thy dwelling place to be undisturbed, puts thy fox-hole before the interests of humanity. Before the interests of thy people. I this and that in the this and that of thy father. I this and that and that in thy this. Pick up that bag."
Pablo looked down.
"Every one has to do what he can do according to how it can be truly done," he said. "I live here and I operate beyond Segovia. If you make a disturbance here, we will be hunted out of these mountains. It is only by doing nothing here that we are able to live in these mountains. It is the principle of the fox."
"Yes," said Anselmo bitterly. "It is the principle of the fox when we need the wolf."
"I am more wolf than thee," Pablo said and Robert Jordan knew that he would pick up the sack.
"Hi. Ho. .," Anselmo looked at him. "Thou art more wolf than me and I am sixty-eight years old."
He spat on the ground and shook his head.
"You have that many years?" Robert Jordan asked, seeing that now, for the moment, it would be all right and trying to make it go easier.
"Sixty-eight in the month of July."
"If we should ever see that month," said Pablo. "Let me help you with the pack," he said to Robert Jordan. "Leave the other to the old man." He spoke, not sullenly, but almost sadly now. "He is an old man of great strength."
"I will carry the pack," Robert Jordan said.
"Nay," said the old man. "Leave it to this other strong man."
"I will take it," Pablo told him, and in his sullenness there was a sadness that was disturbing to Robert Jordan. He knew that sadness and to see it here worried him.
"Give me the carbine then," he said and when Pablo handed it to him, he slung it over his back and, with the two men climbing ahead of him, they went heavily, pulling and climbing up the granite shelf and over its upper edge to where there was a green clearing in the forest.
They skirted the edge of the little meadow and Robert Jordan, striding easily  He remembered now noticing, without realizing it, that Pablo's trousers were worn soapy shiny in the knees and thighs. I wonder if he has a pair of boots or if he rides in those alpargatas, he thought. He must have quite an outfit. But I don't like that sadness, he thought. That sadness is bad. That's the sadness they get before they quit or before they betray. That is the sadness that comes before the sell-out.
Ahead of them a horse whinnied in the timber and then, through the brown trunks of the pine trees, only a little sunlight coming down through their thick, almost-touching tops, he saw the corral made by roping around the tree trunks. The horses had their heads pointed toward the men as they approached, and at the foot of a tree, outside the corral, the saddles were piled together and covered with a tarpaulin.
As they came up, the two men with the packs stopped, and Robert Jordan knew it was for him to admire the horses.
"Yes," he said. "They are beautiful." He turned to Pablo. "You have your cavalry and all."
There were five horses in the rope corral, three bays, a sorrel, and a buckskin. Sorting them out carefully with his eyes after he had seen them first together, Robert Jordan looked them over individually. Pablo and Anselmo knew how good they were and while Pablo stood now proud and less sad-looking, watching them lovingly, the old man acted as though they were some great surprise that he had produced, suddenly, himself.
"How do they look to you?" he asked.
"All these I have taken," Pablo said and Robert Jordan was pleased to hear him speak proudly.
"That," said Robert Jordan, pointing to one of the bays, a big stallion with a white blaze on his forehead and a single white foot, the near front, "is much horse."
He was a beautiful horse that looked as though he had come out of a painting by Velasquez.
"They are all good," said Pablo. "You know horses?"
"Yes."
"Less bad," said Pablo. "Do you see a defect in one of these?"
Robert Jordan knew that now his papers were being examined by the man who could not read.
The horses all still had their heads up looking at the man. Robert Jordan slipped through between the double rope of the corral and slapped the buckskin on the haunch. He leaned back against the ropes of the enclosure and watched the horses circle the corral, stood watching them a minute more, as they stood still, then leaned down and came out through the ropes.
"The sorrel is lame in the off hind foot," he said to Pablo, not looking at him. "The hoof is split and although it might not get worse soon if shod properly, she could break down if she travels over much hard ground."
"The hoof was like that when we took her," Pablo said.
"The best horse that you have, the white-faced bay stallion, has a swelling on the upper part of the cannon bone that I do not like."
"It is nothing," said Pablo. "He knocked it three days ago. If it were to be anything it would have become so already."
He pulled back the tarpaulin and showed the saddles. There were two ordinary vaquero's or herdsman's saddles, like American stock saddles, one very ornate vaquero's saddle, with hand-tooled leather and heavy, hooded stirrups, and two military saddles in black leather.
"We killed a pair of guardia civil," he said, explaining the military saddles.
"That is big game."
"They had dismounted on the road between Segovia and Santa Maria del Real. They had dismounted to ask papers of the driver of a cart. We were able to kill them without injuring the horses."
"Have you killed many civil guards?" Robert Jordan asked.
"Several," Pablo said. "But only these two without injury to the horses."
"It was Pablo who blew up the train at Arevalo," Anselmo said. "That was Pablo."
"There was a foreigner with us who made the explosion," Pablo said. "Do you know him?"
"What is he called?"
"I do not remember. It was a very rare name."
"What did he look like?"
"He was fair, as you are, but not as tall and with large hands and a broken nose."
"Kashkin," Robert Jordan said. "That would be Kashkin."
"Yes," said Pablo. "It was a very rare name. Something like that. What has become of him?"
"He is dead since April."
"That is what happens to everybody," Pablo said, gloomily. "That is the way we will all finish."
"That is the way all men end," Anselmo said. "That is the way men have always ended. What is the matter with you, man? What hast thou in the stomach?"
"They are very strong," Pablo said. It was as though he were talking to himself. He looked at the horses gloomily. "You do not realize how strong they are. I see them always stronget always better armed. Always with more material. Here am I with horses like these. And what can I look forward to? To be hunted and to die. Nothing more."
"You hunt as much as you are hunted," Anselmo said.
"No," said Pablo. "Not any more. And if we leave these mountains now, where can we go? Answer me that? Where now?"
"In Spain there are many mountains. There are the Sierra de Gredos if one leaves here."
"Not for me," Pablo said. "I am tired of being hunted. Here we are all right. Now if you blow a bridge here, we will be hunted. If they know we are here and hunt for us with planes, they will find us. If they send Moors to hunt us out, they will find us and we must go. I am tired of all this. You hear?" He turned to Robert Jordan. "What right have you, a foreigner, to come to me and tell me what I must do?"
"I have not told you anything you must do," Robert Jordan said to him.
"You will though," Pablo said. "There. There is the badness."
He pointed at the two heavy packs that they had lowered to the ground while they had watched the horses. Seeing the horses had seemed to bring this all to a head in him and seeing that Robert Jordan knew horses had seemed to loosen his tongue. The three of them stood now by the rope corral and the patchy sunlight shone on the coat of the bay stallion. Pablo looked at him and then pushed with his foot against the heavy pack. "There is the badness."
"I come only for my duty," Robert Jordan told him. "I come under orders from those who are conducting the war. If I ask you to help me, you can refuse and I will find others who will help me. I have not even asked you for help yet. I have to do what I am ordered to do and I can promise you of its importance. That I am a foreigner is not my fault. I would rather have been born here."
"To me, now, the most important is that we be not disturbed here," Pablo said. "To me, now, my duty is to those who are with me and to myself."
"Thyself. Yes," Anselmo said. "Thyself now since a long time. Thyself and thy horses. Until thou hadst horses thou wert with us. Now thou art another capitalist more."
"That is unjust," said Pablo. "I expose the horses all the time for the cause."
"Very little," said Anselmo scornfully. "Very little in my judgment. To steal, yes. To eat well, yes. To murder, yes. To fight, no."
"You are an old man who will make himself trouble with his mouth."
"I am an old man who is afraid of no one," Anselmo told him. "Also I am an old man without horses."
"You are an old man who may not live long."
"I am an old man who will live until I die," Anselmo said. "And I am not afraid of foxes."
Pablo said nothing but picked up the pack.
"Nor of wolves either," Anselmo said, picking up the other pack. "If thou art a wolf."
"Shut thy mouth," Pablo said to him. "Thou art an old man who always talks too much."
"And would do whatever he said he would do," Anselmo said, bent under the pack. "And who now is hungry. And thirsty. Go on, guerilla leader with the sad face. Lead us to something to eat."
It is starting badly enough, Robert Jordan thought. But Anselmo's a man. They are wonderful when they are good, he thought. There is no people like them when they are good and when they go bad there is no people that is worse. Anselmo must have known what he was doing when he brought us here. But I don't like it. I don't like any of it.
The only good sign was that Pablo was carrying the pack and that he had given him the carbine. Perhaps he is always like that, Robert Jordan thought. Maybe he is just one of the gloomy ones.
No, he said to himself, don't fool yourself. You do not know how he was before; but you do know that he is going bad fast and without hiding it. When he starts to hide it he will have made a decision. Remember that, he told himself. The first friendly thing he does, he will have made a decision. They are awfully good horses, though, he thought, beautiful horses. I wonder what could make me feel the way those horses make Pablo feel. The old man was right. The horses made him rich and as soon as he was rich he wanted to enjoy life. Pretty soon he'll feel bad because he can't join the Jockey Club, I guess, he thought. Pauvre Pablo. Il a manque son Jockey.
That idea made him feel better. He grinned, looking at the two bent backs and the big packs ahead of him moving through the trees. He had not made any jokes with himself all day and now that he had made one he felt much better. You're getting to be as all the rest of them, he told himself. You're getting gloomy, too. He'd certainly been solemn and gloomy with Golz. The job had overwhelmed him a little. Slightly overwhelmed, he thought. Plenty overwhelmed. Golz was gay and he had wanted him to be gay too before he left, but he hadn't been.
All the best ones, when you thought it over, were gay. It was much better to be gay and it was a sign of something too. It was like having immortality while you were still alive. That was a complicated one. There were not many of them left though. No, there were not many of the gay ones left. There were very damned few of them left. And if you keep on thinking like that, my boy, you won't be left either. Turn off the thinking now, old timer, old comrade. You're a bridge-blower now. Not a thinker. Man, I'm hungry, he thought. I hope Pablo eats well.
They had come through the heavy timber to the cup-shaped upper end of the little valley and he saw where the camp must be under the rim-rock that rose ahead of them through the trees.
That was the camp all right and it was a good camp. You did not see it at all until you were up to it and Robert Jordan knew it could not be spotted from the air. Nothing would show from above. It was as well hidden as a bear's den. But it seemed to be little better guarded. He looked at it carefully as they came up.
There was a large cave in the rim-rock formation and beside the opening a man sat with his back against the rock, "Hola," said the seated man. "What is this that comes?"
"The old man and a dynamiter," Pablo told him and lowered the pack inside the entrance to the cave. Anselmo lowered his pack, too, and Robert Jordan unslung the rifle and leaned it against the rock.
"Don't leave it so close to the cave," the whittling man, who had blue eyes in a dark, good-looking lazy gypsy face, the color of smoked leather, said. "There's a fire in there."
"Get up and put it away thyself," Pablo said. "Put it by that tree."
The gypsy did not move but said something unprintable, then, "Leave it there. Blow thyself up," he said lazily. "Twill cure thy diseases."
"What do you make?" Robert Jordan sat down by the gypsy. The gypsy showed him. It was a figure four trap and he was whittling the crossbar for it.
"For foxes," he said. "With a log for a dead-fall. It breaks their backs." He grinned at Jordan. "Like this, see?" He made a motion of the framework of the trap collapsing, the log falling, then shook his head, drew in his hand, and spread his arms to show the fox with a broken back. "Very practical," he explained.
"He catches rabbits," Anselmo said. "He is a gypsy. So if he catches rabbits he says it is foxes. If he catches a fox he would say it was an elephant."
"And if I catch an elephant?" the gypsy asked and showed his white teeth again and winked at Robert Jordan.
"You'd say it was a tank," Anselmo told him.
"I'll get a tank," the gypsy told him. "I will get a tank. And you can say it is what you please."
"Gypsies talk much and kill little," Anselmo told him.
The gypsy winked at Robert Jordan and went on whittling.
Pablo had gone in out of sight in the cave. Robert Jordan hoped he had gone for food. He sat on the ground by the gypsy and the afternoon sunlight came down through the tree tops and was warm on his outstretched legs. He could smell food now in the cave, the smell of oil and of onions and of meat frying and his stomach moved with hunger inside of him.
"We can get a tank," he said to the gypsy. "It is not too difficult."
"With this?" the gypsy pointed toward the two sacks.
"Yes," Robert Jordan told him. "I will teach you. You make a trap. It is not too difficult."
"You and me?"
"Sure," said Robert Jordan. "Why not?"
"Hey," the gypsy said to Anselmo. "Move those two sacks to where they will be safe, will you? They're valuable."
Anselmo grunted. "I am going for wine," he told Robert Jordan. Robert Jordan got up and lifted the sacks away from the cave entrance and leaned them, one on each side of a tree trunk. He knew what was in them and he never liked to see them close together.
"Bring a cup for me," the gypsy told him.
"Is there wine?" Robert Jordan asked, sitting down again by the gypsy.
"Wine? Why not? A whole skinful. Half a skinful, anyway."
"And what to eat?"
"Everything, man," the gypsy said. "We eat like generals."
"And what do gypsies do in the war?" Robert Jordan asked him.
"They keep on being gypsies."
"That's a good job."
"The best," the gypsy said. "How do they call thee?"
"Roberto. And thee?"
"Rafael. And this of the tank is serious?"
"Surely. Why not?"
Anselmo came out of the mouth of the cave with a deep stone basin full of red wine and with his fingers through the handles of three cups. "Look," he said. "They have cups and all." Pablo came out behind them.
"There is food soon," he said. "Do you have tobacco?"
Robert Jordan went over to the packs and opening one, felt inside an inner pocket and brought out one of the flat boxes of Russian cigarettes he had gotten at Golz's headquarters. He ran his thumbnail around the edge of the box and, opening the lid, handed them to Pablo who took half a dozen. Pablo, holding them in one of his huge hands, picked one up and looked at it against the light. They were long narrow cigarettes with pasteboard cylinders for mouthpieces.
"Much air and little tobacco," he said. "I know these. The other with the rare name had them."
"Kashkin," Robert Jordan said and offered the cigarettes to the gypsy and Anselmo, who each took one.
"Take more," he said and they each took another. He gave them each four more, they making a double nod with the hand holding the cigarettes so that the cigarette dipped its end as a man salutes with a sword, to thank him.
"Yes," Pablo said. "It was a rare name."
"Here is the wine." Anselmo dipped a cup out of the bowl and handed it to Robert Jordan, then dipped for himself and the gypsy.
"Is there no wine for me?" Pablo asked. They were all sitting together by the cave entrance.
Anselmo handed him his cup and went into the cave for another. Coming out he leaned over the bowl and dipped the cup full and they all touched cup edges.
The wine was good, tasting faintly resinous from the wineskin, but excellent, light and clean on his tongue. Robert Jordan drank it slowly, feeling it spread warmly through his tiredness.
"The food comes shortly," Pablo said. "And this foreigner with the rare name, how did he die?"
"He was captured and he killed himself."
"How did that happen?"
"He was wounded and he did not wish to be a prisoner."
"What were the details?"
"I don't know," he lied. He knew the details very well and he knew they would not make good talking now.
"He made us promise to shoot him in case he were wounded at the business of the train and should be unable to get away," Pablo said. "He spoke in a very rare manner."
He must have been jumpy even then, Robert Jordan thought. Poor old Kashkin.
"He had a prejudice against killing himself," Pablo said. "He told me that. Also he had a great fear of being tortured."
"Did he tell you that, too?" Robert Jordan asked him.
"Yes," the gypsy said. "He spoke like that to all of us."
"Were you at the train, too?"
"Yes. All of us were at the train."
"He spoke in a very rare manner," Pablo said. "But he was very brave."
Poor old Kashkin, Robert Jordan thought. He must have been doing more harm than good around here. I wish I would have known he was that jumpy as far back as then. They should have Pulled him out. You can't have people around doing this sort of Work and talking like that. That is no way to talk. Even if they accomplish their mission they are doing more harm than good, talking that sort of stuff.
"He was a little strange," Robert Jordan said. "I think he was a little crazy."
"But very dexterous at producing explosions," the gypsy said. "And very brave."
"But crazy," Robert Jordan said. "In this you have to have very much head and be very cold in the head. That was no way to talk."
"And you," Pablo said. "If you are wounded in such a thing as this bridge, you would be willing to be left behind?"
"Listen," Robert Jordan said and, leaning forward, he dipped himself another cup of the wine. "Listen to me clearly. If ever I should have any little favors to ask of any man, I will ask him at the time."
"Good," said the gypsy approvingly. "In this way speak the good ones. Ah! Here it comes."
"You have eaten," said Pablo.
"And I can eat twice more," the gypsy told him. "Look now who brings it."
The girl stooped as she came out of the cave mouth carrying the big iron cooking platter and Robert Jordan saw her face turned at an angle and at the same time saw the strange thing about her. She smiled and said, "Hola, Comrade," and Robert Jordan said, "Salud," and was careful not to stare and not to look away. She set down the flat iron platter in front of him and he noticed her handsome brown hands. Now she looked him full in the face and smiled. Her teeth were white in her brown face and her skin and her eyes were the same golden tawny brown. She had high cheekbones, merry eyes and a straight mouth with full lips. Her hair was the golden brown of a grain field that has been burned dark in the sun but it was cut short all over her head so that it was but little longer than the fur on a beaver pelt. She smiled in Robert Jordan's face and put her brown hand up and ran it over her head, flattening the hair which rose again as her hand passed. She has a beautiful face, Robert Jordan thought. She'd be beautiful if they hadn't cropped her hair.
"That is the way I comb it," she said to Robert Jordan and laughed. "Go ahead and eat. Don't stare at me. They gave me this haircut in Valladolid. It's almost grown out now."
She sat down opposite him and looked at him. He looked back at her and she smiled and folded her hands together over her knees. Her legs slanted long and clean from the open cuffs of the trousers as she sat with her hands across her knees and he could see the shape of her small up-tilted breasts under the gray shirt. Every time Robert Jordan looked at her he could feel a thickness in his throat.
"There are no plates," Anselmo said. "Use your own knife." The girl had leaned four forks, tines down, against the sides of the iron dish.
They were all eating out of the platter, not speaking, as is the Spanish custom. It was rabbit cooked with onions and green peppers and there were chick peas in the red wine sauce. It was well cooked, the rabbit meat flaked off the bones, and the sauce was delicious. Robert Jordan drank another cup of wine while he ate. The girl watched him all through the meal. Every one else was watching his food and eating. Robert Jordan wiped up the last of the sauce in front of him with a piece of bread, piled the rabbit bones to one side, wiped the spot where they had been for sauce, then wiped his fork clean with the bread, wiped his knife and put it away and ate the bread. He leaned over and dipped his cup full of wine and the girl still watched him.
Robert Jordan drank half the cup of wine but the thickness still came in his throat when he spoke to the girl.
"How art thou called?" he asked. Pablo looked at him quickly when he heard the tone of his voice. Then he got up and walked away.
"Maria. And thee?"
"Roberto. Have you been long in the mountains?"
"Three months."
"Three months?" He looked at her hair, that was as thick and short and rippling when she passed her hand over it, now in embarrassment, as a grain field in the wind on a hillside. "It was shaved," she said. "They shaved it regularly in the prison at Valladolid. It has taken three months to grow to this. I was on the train. They were taking me to the south. Many of the prisoners were caught after the train was blown up but I was not. I came With these."
"I found her hidden in the rocks," the gypsy said. "It was when we were leaving. Man, but this one was ugly. We took her along but many times I thought we would have to leave her."
"And the

 "No, not really well. But I learn fast. I have a good map and I have a good guide."
"The old man," she nodded. "The old man is very good."
"Thank you," Anselmo said to her and Robert Jordan realized suddenly that he and the girl were not alone and he realized too that it was hard for him to look at her because it made his voice change so. He was violating the second rule of the two rules for getting on well with people that speak Spanish; give the men tobacco and leave the women alone; and he realized, very suddenly, that he did not care. There were so many things that he had not to care about, why should he care about that?
"You have a very beautiful face," he said to Maria. "I wish I would have had the luck to see you before your hair was cut."
"It will grow out," she said. "In six months it will be long enough."
"You should have seen her when we brought her from the train. She was so ugly it would make you sick."
"Whose woman are you?" Robert Jordan asked, trying not to pull out of it. "Are you Pablo's?"
She looked at him and laughed, then slapped him on the knee.
"Of Pablo? You have seen Pablo?"
"Well, then, of Rafael. I have seen Rafael."
"Of Rafael neither."
"Of no one," the gypsy said. "This is a very strange woman. Is of no one. But she cooks well."
"Really of no one?" Robert Jordan asked her.
"Of no one. No one. Neither in joke nor in seriousness. Nor of thee either."
"No?" Robert Jordan said and he could feel the thickness coming in his throat again. "Good. I have no time for any woman. That is true."
"Not fifteen minutes?" the gypsy asked teasingly. "Not a quarter of an hour?" Robert Jordan did not answer. He looked at the girl, Maria, and his throat felt too thick for him to trust himself to speak.
Maria looked at him and laughed, then blushed suddenly but kept on looking at him.
"You are blushing," Robert Jordan said to her. "Do you blush much?"
"Never."
"You are blushing now."
"Then I will go into the cave."
"Stay here, Maria."
"No," she said and did not smile at him. "I will go into the cave now." She picked up the iron plate they had eaten from and the four forks. She moved awkwardly as a colt moves, but with that same grace as of a young animal.
"Do you want the cups?" she asked.
Robert Jordan was still looking at her and she blushed again.
"Don't make me do that," she said. "I do not like to do that."
"Leave them," they gypsy said to her. "Here," he dipped into the stone bowl and handed the full cup to Robert Jordan who Watched the girl duck her head and go into the cave carrying the heavy iron dish.
"Thank you," Robert Jordan said. His voice was all right again, now that she was gone. "This is the last one. We've had enough of this."
"We will finish the bowl," the gypsy said. "There is over half a skin. We packed it in on one of the horses."
"That was the last raid of Pablo," Anselmo said. "Since then he has done nothing."
"How many are you?" Robert Jordan asked.
"We are seven and there are two women."
"Two?"
"Yes. The mujer of Pablo."
"And she?"
"In the cave. The girl can cook a little. I said she cooks well to please her. But mostly she helps the mujer of Pablo."
"And how is she, the mujer of Pablo?"
"Something barbarous," the gypsy grinned. "Something very barbarous. If you think Pablo is ugly you should see his woman. But brave. A hundred times braver than Pablo. But something barbarous."
"Pablo was brave in the beginning," Anselmo said. "Pablo was something serious in the beginning."
"He killed more people than the cholera," the gypsy said. "At the start of the movement, Pablo killed more people than the typhoid fever."
"But since a long time he is muy flojo," Anselmo said. "He is very flaccid. He is very much afraid to die."
"It is possible that it is because he has killed so many at the beginning," the gypsy said philosophically. "Pablo killed more than the bubonic plague."
"That and the riches," Anselmo said. "Also he drinks very much. Now he would like to retire like a matador de toros. Like a bullfighter. But he cannot retire."
"If he crosses to the other side of the lines they will take his horses and make him go in the army," the gypsy said. "In me there is no love for being in the army either."
"Nor is there in any other gypsy," Anselmo said.
"Why should there be?" the gypsy asked. "Who wants to be in an army? Do we make the revolution to be in an army? I am willing to fight but not to be in an army."
"Where are the others?" asked Robert Jordan. He felt comfortable and sleepy now from the wine and lying back on the floor of the forest he saw through the tree tops the small afternoon clouds of the mountains moving slowly in the high Spanish sky.
"There are two asleep in the cave," the gypsy said. "Two are on guard above where we have the gun. One is on guard below. They are probably all asleep."
Robert Jordan rolled over on his side.
"What kind of a gun is it?"
"A very rare name," the gypsy said. "It has gone away from me for the moment. It is a machine gun."
It must be an automatic rifle, Robert Jordan thought.
"How much does it weigh?" he asked.
"One man can carry it but it is heavy. It has three legs that fold. We got it in the last serious raid. The one before the wine."
"How many rounds have you for it?"
"An infinity," the gypsy said. "One whole case of an unbelievable heaviness."
Sounds like about five hundred rounds, Robert Jordan thought.
"Does it feed from a pan or a belt?"
"From round iron cans on the top of the gun."
Hell, it's a Lewis gun, Robert Jordan thought.
"Do you know anything about a machine gun?" he asked the old man.
"Nada," said Anselmo. "Nothing."
"And thou?" to the gypsy.
"That they fire with much rapidity and become so hot the barrel burns the hand that touches it," the gypsy said proudly.
"Every one knows that," Anselmo said with contempt.
"Perhaps," the gypsy said. "But he asked me to tell what I know about a maquina and I told him." Then he added, "Also, unlike an ordinary rifle, they continue to fire as long as you exert pressure on the trigger."
"Unless they jam, run out of ammunition or get so hot they melt," Robert Jordan said in English.
"What do you say?" Anselmo asked him.
"Nothing," Robert Jordan said. "I was only looking into the future in English."
"That is something truly rare," the gypsy said. "Looking into the future in Ingles. Can you read in the palm of the hand?"
"No," Robert Jordan said and he dipped another cup of wine. "But if thou canst I wish thee would read in the palm of my hand and tell me what is going to pass in the next three days."
"The mujer of Pablo reads in the hands," the gypsy said. "But she is so irritable and of such a barbarousness that I do not know if she will do it."
Robert Jordan sat up now and took a swallow of the wine.
"Let us see the mujer of Pablo now," he said. "If it is that bad let us get it over with."
"I would not disturb her," Rafael said. "She has a strong hatred for me."
"Why?"
"She treats me as a time waster."
"What injustice," Anselmo taunted.
"She is against gypsies."
"What an error," Anselmo said.
"She has gypsy blood," Rafael said. "She knows of what she speaks." He grinned. "But she has a tongue that scalds and that bites like a bull whip. With this tongue she takes the hide from any one. In strips. She is of an unbelievable barbarousness."
"How does she get along with the girl, Maria?" Robert Jordan asked.
"Good. She likes the girl. But let any one come near her seriously-" He shook his head and clucked with his tongue.
"She is very good with the girl," Anselmo said. "She takes good care of her."
"When we picked the girl up at the time of the train she was very strange," Rafael said. "She would not speak and she cried all the time and if any one touched her she would shiver like a wet dog. Only lately has she been better. Lately she has been much better. Today she was fine. Just now, talking to you, she was very good. We would have left her after the train. Certainly it was not worth being delayed by something so sad and ugly and apparently worthless. But the old woman tied a rope to her and when the girl thought she could not go further, the old woman beat her with the end of the rope to make her go. Then when she could not really go further, the old woman carried her over her shoulder. When the old woman could not carry her, I carried her. We were going up that hill breast high in the gorse and heather. And when I could no longer carry her, Pablo carried her. But what the old woman had to say to us to make us do it!" He shook his head at the memory. "It is true that the girl is long in the legs but is not heavy. The bones are light and she weighs little. But she weighs enough when we had to carry her and stop to fire and then carry her again with the old woman lashing at Pablo with the rope and carrying his rifle, putting it in his hand when he would drop the girl, making him pick her up again and loading the gun for him while she cursed him; taking the shells from his pouches and shoving them down into the magazine and cursing him. The dusk was coming well on then and when the night came it was all right. But it was lucky that they had no cavalry."
"It must have been very hard at the train," Anselmo said. "I was not there," he explained to Robert Jordan. "There was the band of Pablo, of El Sordo, whom we will see tonight, and two other bands of these mountains. I had gone to the other side of the lines."
"In addition to the blond one with the rare name-" the gypsy said.
"Kashkin."
"Yes. It is a name I can never dominate. We had two with a machine gun. They were sent also by the army. They could not get the gun away and lost it. Certainly it weighed no more than that girl and if the old woman had been over them they would have gotten it away." He shook his head remembering, then went on. "Never in my life have I seen such a thing as when the explosion Was produced. The train was coming steadily. We saw it far away. And I had an excitement so great that I cannot tell it. We saw steam from it and then later came the noise of the whistle. Then it came chu-chu-chu-chu-chu-chu steadily larger and larger and then, at the moment of the explosion, the front wheels of the engine rose up and all of the earth seemed to rise in a great cloud of blackness and a roar and the engine rose high in the cloud of dirt and of the Wooden Robert Cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of Princeton. Do not think that I am very much 
impressed by that as a boxing title, but it meant a lot to Cohn. He cared nothing for boxing, in fact he disliked it, but 
he learned it painfully and thoroughly to counteract the feeling of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being 
treated as a Jew at Princeton. There was a certain inner comfort in knowing he could knock down anybody who was 
snooty to him, although, being very shy and a thoroughly nice boy, he never fought except in the gym. He was 
Spider Kelly's star pupil. Spider Kelly taught all his young gentlemen to box like featherweights, no matter whether 
they weighed one hundred and five or two hundred and five pounds. But it seemed to fit Cohn. He was really very 
fast. He was so good that Spider promptly overmatched him and got his nose permanently flattened. This increased 
Cohn's distaste for boxing, but it gave him a certain satisfaction of some strange sort, and it certainly improved his 
nose. In his last year at Princeton he read too much and took to wearing spectacles. I never met any one of his class 
who remembered him. They did not even remember that he was middleweight boxing champion. 
 I mistrust all frank and simple people, especially when their stories hold together, and I always had a suspicion 
that perhaps Robert Cohn had never been middleweight boxing champion, and that perhaps a horse had stepped on 
his face, or that maybe his mother had been frightened or seen something, or that he had, maybe, bumped into 
something as a young child, but I finally had somebody verify the story from Spider Kelly. Spider Kelly not only 
remembered Cohn. He had often wondered what had become of him. 
 Robert Cohn was a member, through his father, of one of the richest Jewish families in New York, and through 
his mother of one of the oldest. At the military school where he prepped for Princeton, and played a very good end 
on the football team, no one had made him race-conscious. No one had ever made him feel he was a Jew, and hence 
any different from anybody else, until he went to Princeton. He was a nice boy, a friendly boy, and very shy, and it 
made him bitter. He took it out in boxing, and he came out of Princeton with painful self-consciousness and the 
flattened nose, and was married by the first girl who was nice to him. He was married five years, had three children, 
lost most of the fifty thousand dollars his father left him, the balance of the estate having gone to his mother, 
hardened into a rather unattractive mould under domestic unhappiness with a rich wife; and just when he had made 
up his mind to leave his wife she left him and went off with a miniature-painter. As he had been thinking for months 
about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be too cruel to deprive her of himself, her departure was 
a very healthful shock. 
 The divorce was arranged and Robert Cohn went out to the Coast. In California he fell among literary people 
and, as he still had a little of the fifty thousand left, in a short time he was backing a review of the Arts. The review 
commenced publication in Carmel, California, and finished in Provincetown, Massachusetts. By that time Cohn, 
who had been regarded purely as an angel, and whose name had appeared on the editorial page merely as a member 
of the advisory board, had become the sole editor. It was his money and he discovered he liked the authority of 
editing. He was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he had to give it up. 
 By that time, though, he had other things to worry about. He had been taken in hand by a lady who hoped to 
rise with the magazine. She was very forceful, and Cohn never had a chance of not being taken in hand. Also he was 
sure that he loved her. When this lady saw that the magazine was not going to rise, she became a little disgusted 
with Cohn and decided that she might as well get what there was to get while there was still something available, so
she urged that they go to Europe, where Cohn could write. They came to Europe, where the lady had been educated, 
and stayed three years. During these three years, the first spent in travel, the last two in Paris, Robert Cohn had two 
friends, Braddocks and myself. Braddocks was his literary friend. I was his tennis friend. 
 The lady who had him, her name was Frances, found toward the end of the second year that her looks were 
going, and her attitude toward Robert changed from one of careless possession and exploitation to the absolute 
determination that he should marry her. During this time Robert's mother had settled an allowance on him, about 
three hundred dollars a month. During two years and a half I do not believe that Robert Cohn looked at another 
woman. He was fairly happy, except that, like many people living in Europe, he would rather have been in America, 
and he had discovered writing. He wrote a novel, and it was not really such a bad novel as the critics later called it, 
although it was a very poor novel. He read many books, played bridge, played tennis, and boxed at a local 
gymnasium. 
 I first became aware of his lady's attitude toward him one night after the three of us had dined together. We 
had dined at l'Avenue's and afterward went to the Café de Versailles for coffee. We had several fines after the 
coffee, and I said I must be going. Cohn had been talking about the two of us going off somewhere on a weekend 
trip. He wanted to get out of town and get in a good walk. I suggested we fly to Strasbourg and walk up to Saint 
Odile, or somewhere or other in Alsace. "I know a girl in Strasbourg who can show us the town," I said. 
 Somebody kicked me under the table. I thought it was accidental and went on: "She's been there two years and 
knows everything there is to know about the town. She's a swell girl." 
 I was kicked again under the table and, looking, saw Frances, Robert's lady, her chin lifting and her face 
hardening. 
 "Hell," I said, "why go to Strasbourg? We could go up to Bruges, or to the Ardennes." 
 Cohn looked relieved. I was not kicked again. I said good-night and went out. Cohn said he wanted to buy a 
paper and would walk to the corner with me. "For God's sake," he said, "why did you say that about that girl in 
Strasbourg for? Didn't you see Frances?" 
 "No, why should I? If I know an American girl that lives in Strasbourg what the hell is it to Frances?" 
 "It doesn't make any difference. Any girl. I couldn't go, that would be all." 
 "Don't be silly." 
 "You don't know Frances. Any girl at all. Didn't you see the way she looked?" 
 "Oh, well," I said, "let's go to Senlis." 
 "Don't get sore." 
 "I'm not sore. Senlis is a good place and we can stay at the Grand Cerf and take a hike in the woods and come 
home." 
 "Good, that will be fine." 
 "Well, I'll see you to-morrow at the courts," I said. 
 "Good-night, Jake," he said, and started back to the café. 
 "You forgot to get your paper," I said. 
 "That's so." He walked with me up to the kiosque at the corner. "You are not sore, are you, Jake?" He turned 
with the paper in his hand. 
 "No, why should I be?" 
 "See you at tennis," he said. I watched him walk back to the café holding his paper. I rather liked him and 
evidently she led him quite a life. 
That winter Robert Cohn went over to America with his novel, and it was accepted by a fairly good publisher. 
His going made an awful row I heard, and I think that was where Frances lost him, because several women were 
nice to him in New York, and when he came back he was quite changed. He was more enthusiastic about America 
than ever, and he was not so simple, and he was not so nice. The publishers had praised his novel pretty highly and 
it rather went to his head. Then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him, and his horizons had all 
shifted. For four years his horizon had been absolutely limited to his wife. For three years, or almost three years, he 
had never seen beyond Frances. I am sure he had never been in love in his life. 
 He had married on the rebound from the rotten time he had in college, and Frances took him on the rebound 
from his discovery that he had not been everything to his first wife. He was not in love yet but he realized that he 
was an attractive quantity to women, and that the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was 
not simply a divine miracle. This changed him so that he was not so pleasant to have around. Also, playing for 
higher stakes than he could afford in some rather steep bridge games with his New York connections, he had held 
cards and won several hundred dollars. It made him rather vain of his bridge game, and he talked several times of 
how a man could always make a living at bridge if he were ever forced to. 
 Then there was another thing. He had been reading W. H. Hudson. That sounds like an innocent occupation, 
but Cohn had read and reread "The Purple Land." "The Purple Land" is a very sinister book if read too late in life. It 
recounts splendid imaginary amorous adventures of a perfect English gentleman in an intensely romantic land, the 
scenery of which is very well described. For a man to take it at thirty-four as a guide-book to what life holds is 
about as safe as it would be for a man of the same age to enter Wall Street direct from a French convent, equipped 
with a complete set of the more practical Alger books. Cohn, I believe, took every word of "The Purple Land" as 
literally as though it had been an R. G. Dun report. You understand me, he made some reservations, but on the whole 
the book to him was sound. It was all that was needed to set him off. I did not realize the extent to which it had set 
him off until one day he came into my office. 
 "Hello, Robert," I said. "Did you come in to cheer me up?" 
 "Would you like to go to South America, Jake?" he asked. 
 "No." 
 "Why not?" 
 "I don't know. I never wanted to go. Too expensive. You can see all the South Americans you want in Paris 
anyway." 
 "They're not the real South Americans." 
 "They look awfully real to me." 
 I had a boat train to catch with a week's mail stories, and only half of them written. 
 "Do you know any dirt?" I asked. 
 "No." 
 "None of your exalted connections getting divorces?" 
 "No; listen, Jake. If I handled both our expenses, would you go to South America with me?" 
 "Why me?" 
 "You can talk Spanish. And it would be more fun with two of us." 
 "No," I said, "I like this town and I go to Spain in the summertime." 
 "All my life I've wanted to go on a trip like that," Cohn said. He sat down. "I'll be too old before I can ever do 
it." 
 "Don't be a fool," I said. 
 "I know. But I can't get started." 
 "Cheer up," I said. "All countries look just like the moving pictures." 
 But I felt sorry for him. He had it badly. 
 "I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it." 
 "Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bullfighters." 
 "I'm not interested in bull-fighters. That's an abnormal life. I want to go back in the country in South America. 
We could have a great trip." 
 "Did you ever think about going to British East Africa to shoot?" 
 "No, I wouldn't like that." 
 "I'd go there with you." 
 "No; that doesn't interest me." 
 "That's because you never read a book about it. Go on and read a book all full of love affairs with the beautiful 
shiny black princesses." 
 "I want to go to South America." 
 He had a hard, Jewish, stubborn streak. 
 "Come on down-stairs and have a drink." 
 "Aren't you working?" 
 "No," I said. We went down the stairs to the café on the ground floor. I had discovered that was the best way to 
get rid of friends. Once you had a drink all you had to say was: "Well, I've got to get back and get off some cables," 
and it was done. It is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business, where it is such 
an important part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working. Anyway, we went down-stairs to the bar 
and had a whiskey and soda. Cohn looked at the bottles in bins around the wall. "This is a good place," he said. 
 "There's a lot of liquor," I agreed. 
 "Listen, Jake," he leaned forward on the bar. "Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and 
you're not taking advantage of it? Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?" 
 "Yes, every once in a while." 
 "Do you know that in about thirty-five years more we'll be dead?" 
 "What the hell, Robert," I said. "What the hell." 
 "I'm serious." 
 "It's one thing I don't worry about," I said. 
 "You ought to." 
 "I've had plenty to worry about one time or other. I'm through worrying." 
 "Well, I want to go to South America." 
 "Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away 
from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." 
 "But you've never been to South America." 
 "South America hell! If you went there the way you feel now it would be exactly the same. This is a good 
town. Why don't you start living your life in Paris?" 
 "I'm sick of Paris, and I'm sick of the Quarter." 
 "Stay away from the Quarter. Cruise around by yourself and see what happens to you." 
 "Nothing happens to me. I walked alone all one night and nothing happened except a bicycle cop stopped me 
and asked to see my papers." 
 "Wasn't the town nice at night?" 
 "I don't care for Paris." 
It was a warm spring night and I sat at a table on the terrace of the Napolitain after Robert had gone, watching 
it get dark and the electric signs come on, and the red and green stop-and-go traffic-signal, and the crowd going by, 
and the horse-cabs clippety-clopping along at the edge of the solid taxi traffic, and the poules going by, singly and 
in pairs, looking for the evening meal. I watched a good-looking girl walk past the table and watched her go up the 
street and lost sight of her, and watched another, and then saw the first one coming back again. She went by once 
more and I caught her eye, and she came over and sat down at the table. The waiter came up. 
 "Well, what will you drink?" I asked. 
 "Pernod." 
 "That's not good for little girls." 
 "Little girl yourself. Dites garcon, un pernod." 
 "A pernod for me, too." 
 "What's the matter?" she asked. "Going on a party?" 
 "Sure. Aren't you?" 
 "I don't know. You never know in this town." 
 "Don't you like Paris?" 
 "No." 
 "Why don't you go somewhere else?" 
 "Isn't anywhere else." 
 "You're happy, all right." 
 "Happy, hell!" 
 Pernod is greenish imitation absinthe. When you add water it turns milky. It tastes like licorice and it has a 
good uplift, but it drops you just as far. We sat and drank it, and the girl looked sullen. 
 "Well," I said, "are you going to buy me a dinner?" 
 She grinned and I saw why she made a point of not laughing. With her mouth closed she was a rather pretty 
girl. I paid for the saucers and we walked out to the street. I hailed a horse-cab and the driver pulled up at the curb. 
Settled back in the slow, smoothly rolling fiacre we moved up the Avenue de l'Opéra, passed the locked doors of 
the shops, their windows lighted, the Avenue broad and shiny and almost deserted. The cab passed the New York 
Herald bureau with the window full of clocks. 
 "What are all the clocks for?" she asked. 
 "They show the hour all over America." 
 "Don't kid me." 
 We turned off the Avenue up the Rue des Pyramides, through the traffic of the Rue de Rivoli, and through a 
dark gate into the Tuileries. She cuddled against me and I put my arm around her. She looked up to be kissed. She 
touched me with one hand and I put her hand away. 
 "Never mind." 
 "What's the matter? You sick?" 
 "Yes." 
 "Everybody's sick. I'm sick, too." 
 We came out of the Tuileries into the light and crossed the Seine and then turned up the Rue des Saints Pères. 
 "You oughtn't to drink pernod if you're sick." 
 "You neither." 
 "It doesn't make any difference with me. It doesn't make any difference with a woman." 
"What are you called?" 
 "Georgette. How are you called?" 
 "Jacob." 
 "That's a Flemish name." 
 "American too." 
 "You're not Flamand?" 
 "No, American." 
 "Good, I detest Flamands." 
 By this time we were at the restaurant. I called to the cocher to stop. We got out and Georgette did not like 
the looks of the place. "This is no great thing of a restaurant." 
 "No," I said. "Maybe you would rather go to Foyot's. Why don't you keep the cab and go on?" 
 I had picked her up because of a vague sentimental idea that it would be nice to eat with some one. It was a 
long time since I had dined with a poule, and I had forgotten how dull it could be. We went into the restaurant, 
passed Madame Lavigne at the desk and into a little room. Georgette cheered up a little under the food. 
 "It isn't bad here," she said. "It isn't chic, but the food is all right." 
 "Better than you eat in Liege." 
 "Brussels, you mean." 
 We had another bottle of wine and Georgette made a joke. She smiled and showed all her bad teeth, and we 
touched glasses. 
 "You're not a bad type," she said. "It's a shame you're sick. We get on well. What's the matter with you, 
anyway?" 
 "I got hurt in the war," I said. 
 "Oh, that dirty war." 
 We would probably have gone on and discussed the war and agreed that it was in reality a calamity for 
civilization, and perhaps would have been better avoided. I was bored enough. Just then from the other room some 
one called: "Barnes! I say, Barnes! Jacob Barnes! 
 "It's a friend calling me," I explained, and went out. 
 There was Braddocks at a big table with a party: Cohn, Frances Clyne, Mrs. Braddocks, several people I did 
not know. 
 "You're coming to the dance, aren't you?" Braddocks asked. 
 "What dance?" 
 "Why, the dancings. Don't you know we've revived them?" Mrs. Braddocks put in. 
 "You must come, Jake. We're all going," Frances said from the end of the table. She was tall and had a smile. 
 "Of course, he's coming," Braddocks said. "Come in and have coffee with us, Barnes." 
 "Right." 
 "And bring your friend," said Mrs. Braddocks laughing. She was a Canadian and had all their easy social 
graces. 
 "Thanks, we'll be in," I said. I went back to the small room. 
 "Who are your friends?" Georgette asked. 
 "Writers and artists." 
 "There are lots of those on this side of the river." 
 "Too many." 
 "I think so. Still, some of them make money." 
 "Oh, yes."
 We finished the meal and the wine. "Come on," I said. "We're going to have coffee with the others." 
 Georgette opened her bag, made a few passes at her face as she looked in the little mirror, re-defined her lips 
with the lip-stick, and straightened her hat. 
 "Good," she said. 
 We went into the room full of people and Braddocks and the men at his table stood up. 
 "I wish to present my fiancée, Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc," I said. Georgette smiled that wonderful 
smile, and we shook hands all round. 
 "Are you related to Georgette Leblanc, the singer?" Mrs. Braddocks asked. 
 "Connais pas," Georgette answered. 
 "But you have the same name," Mrs. Braddocks insisted cordially. 
 "No," said Georgette. "Not at all. My name is Hobin." 
 "But Mr. Barnes introduced you as Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc. Surely he did," insisted Mrs. Braddocks, 
who in the excitement of talking French was liable to have no idea what she was saying. 
 "He's a fool," Georgette said. 
 "Oh, it was a joke, then," Mrs. Braddocks said. 
 "Yes," said Georgette. "To laugh at." 
 "Did you hear that, Henry?" Mrs. Braddocks called down the table to Braddocks. "Mr. Barnes introduced his 
fiancee as Mademoiselle Leblanc, and her name is actually Hobin." 
 "Of course, darling. Mademoiselle Hobin, I've known her for a very long time." 
 "Oh, Mademoiselle Hobin," Frances Clyne calIed, speaking French very rapidly and not seeming so proud and 
astonished as Mrs. Braddocks at its coming out really French. "Have you been in Paris long? Do you like it here? 
You love Paris, do you not?" 
 "Who's she?" Georgette turned to me. "Do I have to talk to her?" 
 She turned to Frances, sitting smiling, her hands folded, her head poised on her long neck, her lips pursed 
ready to start talking again. 
 "No, I don't like Paris. It's expensive and dirty." 
 "Really? I find it so extraordinarily clean. One of the cleanest cities in all Europe." 
 "I find it dirty." 
 "How strange! But perhaps you have not been here very long." 
 "I've been here long enough." 
 "But it does have nice people in it. One must grant that." 
 Georgette turned to me. "You have nice friends." 
 Frances was a little drunk and would have liked to have kept it up but the coffee came, and Lavigne with the 
liqueurs, and after that we all went out and started for Braddocks's dancing-club. 
 The dancing-club was a bal musette in the Rue de la Montagne Sainte Genevieve. Five nights a week the 
working people of the Pantheon quarter danced there. One night a week it was the dancingclub. On Monday nights 
it was closed. When we arrived it was quite empty, except for a policeman sitting near the door, the wife of the 
proprietor back of the zinc bar, and the proprietor himself. The daughter of the house came down-stairs as we went 
in. There were long benches, and tables ran across the room, and at the far end a dancing-floor. 
 "I wish people would come earlier," Braddocks said. The daughter came up and wanted to know what we 
would drink. The proprietor got up on a high stool beside the dancing-floor and began to play the accordion. He had 
a string of bells around one of his ankles and beat time with his foot as he played. Every one danced. It was hot and 
we came off the floor perspiring. 
 "My God," Georgette said. "What a box to sweat in!" 
"It's hot." 
 "Hot, my Some one asked Georgette to dance, and I went over to the bar. It was really very hot and the accordion music 
was pleasant in the hot night. I drank a beer, standing in the doorway and getting the cool breath of wind from the 
street. Two taxis were coming down the steep street. They both stopped in front of the Bal. A crowd of young men, 
some in jerseys and some in their shirt-sleeves, got out. I could see their hands and newly washed, wavy hair in the 
light from the door. The policeman standing by the door looked at me and smiled. They came in. As they went in, 
under the light I saw white hands, wavy hair, white faces, grimacing, gesturing, talking. With them was Brett. She 
looked very lovely and she was very much with them. 
 One of them saw Georgette and said: "I do declare. There is an actual harlot. I'm going to dance with her, Lett. 
You watch me." 
 The tall dark one, called Lett, said: "Don't you be rash.". 
 The wavy blond one answered: "Don't you worry, dear." And with them was Brett. 
 I was very angry. Somehow they always made me angry. I know they are supposed to be amusing, and you 
should be tolerant, but I wanted to swing on one, any one, anything to shatter that superior, simpering composure. 
Instead, I walked down the street and had a beer at the bar at the next Bal. The beer was not good and I had a worse 
cognac to take the taste Out of my mouth. When I came back to the Bad there was a crowd on the floor and 
Georgette was dancing with the tall blond youth, who danced big-hippily, carrying his head on one side, his eyes 
lifted as he danced. As soon as the music stopped another one of them asked her to dance. She had been taken up by 
them. I knew then that they would all dance with her. They are like that. 
 I sat down at a table. Cohn was sitting there. Frances was dancing. Mrs. Braddocks brought up somebody and 
introduced him as Robert Prentiss. He was from New York by way of Chicago, and was a rising new novelist. He 
had some sort of an English accent. I asked him to have a drink. 
 "Thanks so much," he said, "I've just had one." 
 "Have another." 
 "Thanks, I will then." 
 We got the daughter of the house over and each had a fine a l'eau. 
 "You're from Kansas City, they tell me," he said. 
 "Yes." 
 "Do you find Paris amusing?" 
 "Yes." 
 "Really?" 
 I was a little drunk. Not drunk in any positive sense but just enough to be careless. 
 "For God's sake," I said, "yes. Don't you?" 
 "Oh, how charmingly you get angry," he said. "I wish I had that faculty." 
 I got up and walked over toward the dancing-floor. Mrs. Braddocks followed me. "Don't be cross with 
Robert," she said. "He's still only a child, you know." 
 "I wasn't cross," I said. "I just thought perhaps I was going to throw up." 
 "Your fiancée is having a great success," Mrs. Braddocks looked out on the floor where Georgette was 
dancing in the arms of the tall, dark one, called Lett. 
 "Isn't she?" I said. 
 "Rather," said Mrs. Braddocks. 
Cohn came up. "Come on, Jake," he said, "have a drink." We walked over to the bar. "What's the matter with 
you? You seem all worked up over something?" 
 "Nothing. This whole show makes me sick is all." 
 Brett came up to the bar. 
 "Hello, you chaps." 
 "Hello, Brett," I said. "Why aren't you tight?" 
 "Never going to get tight any more. I say, give a chap a brandy and soda." 
 She stood holding the glass and I saw Robert Cohn looking at her. He looked a great deal as his compatriot 
must have looked when he saw the promised land. Cohn, of course, was much younger. But he had that look of 
eager, deserving expectation. 
 Brett was damned good-looking. She wore a slipover jersey sweater and a tweed skirt, and her hair was 
brushed back like a boy's. She started all that. She was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht, and you 
missed none of it with that wool jersey. 
 "It's a fine crowd you're with, Brett," I said. 
 "Aren't they lovely? And you, my dear. Where did you get it?" 
 "At the Napolitain." 
 "And have you had a lovely evening?" 
 "Oh, priceless," I said. 
 Brett laughed. "It's wrong of you, Jake. It's an insult to all of us. Look at Frances there, and Jo." 
 This for Cohn's benefit. 
 "It's in restraint of trade," Brett said. She laughed again. 
 "You're wonderfully sober," I said. 
 "Yes. Aren't I? And when one's with the crowd I'm with, one can drink in such safety, too." 
 The music started and Robert Cohn said: "Will you dance this with me, Lady Brett?" 
 Brett smiled at him. "I've promised to dance this with Jacob," she laughed. "You've a hell of a biblical name, 
Jake." 
 "How about the next?" asked Cohn. 
 "We're going," Brett said. "We've a date up at Montmartre." 
 Dancing, I looked over Brett's shoulder and saw Cohn, standing at the bar, still watching her. 
 "You've made a new one there," I said to her. 
 "Don't talk about it. Poor chap. I never knew it till just now." 
 "Oh, well," I said. "I suppose you like to add them up." 
 "Don't talk like a fool." 
 "You do." 
 "Oh, well. What if I do?" 
 "Nothing," I said. We were dancing to the accordion and some one was playing the banjo. It was hot and I felt 
happy. We passed close to Georgette dancing with another one of them. 
 "What possessed you to bring her?" 
 "I don't know, I just brought her." 
 "You're getting damned romantic." 
 "No, bored." 
 "Now?" 
 "No, not now." 
 "Let's get out of here. She's well taken care of." 
"Do you want to?" 
 "Would I ask you if I didn't want to?" 
 We left the floor and I took my coat off a hanger on the wall and put it on. Brett stood by the bar. Cohn was 
talking to her. I stopped at the bar and asked them for an envelope. The patronne found one. I took a fifty-franc note 
from my pocket, put it in the envelope, sealed it, and handed it to the patronne. 
 "If the girl I came with asks for me, will you give her this?" I said. "If she goes out with one of those 
gentlemen, will you save this for me?" 
 "C'est entendu, Monsieur," the patronne said. "You go now? So early?" 
 "Yes," I said. 
 We started out the door. Cohn was still talking to Brett. She said good night and took my arm. "Good night, 
Cohn," I said. Outside in the street we looked for a taxi. 
 "You're going to lose your fifty francs," Brett said. 
 "Oh, yes." 
 "No taxis." 
 "We could walk up to the Pantheon and get one." 
 "Come on and we'll get a drink in the pub next door and send for one." 
 "You wouldn't walk across the street." 
 "Not if I could help it." 
 We went into the next bar and I sent a waiter for a taxi. 
 "Well," I said, "we're out away from them." 
 We stood against the tall zinc bar and did not talk and looked at each other. The waiter came and said the taxi 
was outside. Brett pressed my hand hard. I gave the waiter a franc and we went out. "Where should I tell him?" I 
asked. 
 "Oh, tell him to drive around." 
 I told the driver to go to the Parc Montsouris, and got in, and slammed the door. Brett was leaning back in the 
corner, her eyes closed. I sat beside her. The cab started with a jerk. 
 "Oh, darling, I've been so miserable," Brett said. 
The taxi went up the hill, passed the lighted square, then on into the dark, still climbing, then levelled out onto 
a dark street behind St. Etienne du Mont, went smoothly down the asphalt, passed the trees and the standing bus at 
the Place de la Contrescarpe, then turned onto the cobbles of the Rue Mouffetard. There were lighted bars and late 
open shops on each side of the street. We were sitting apart and we jolted close together going down the old street. 
Brett's hat was off. Her head was back. I saw her face in the lights from the open shops, then it was dark, then I saw 
her face clearly as we came out on the Avenue des Gobelins. The street was torn up and men were working on the 
car-tracks by the light of acetylene flares. Brett's face was white and the long line of her neck showed in the bright 
light of the flares. The street was dark again and I kissed her. Our lips were tight together and then she turned away 
and pressed against the corner of the seat, as far away as she could get. Her head was down. 
 "Don't touch me," she said. "Please don't touch me." 
 "What's the matter?" 
 "I can't stand it." 
 "Oh, Brett." 
 "You mustn't. You must know. I can't stand it, that's all. Oh, darling, please understand!" 
 "Don't you love me?" 
 "Love you? I simply turn all to jelly when you touch me." 
 "Isn't there anything we can do about it?" 
 She was sitting up now. My arm was around her and she was leaning back against me, and we were quite calm. 
She was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw out of 
her own eyes. They would look on and on after every one else's eyes in the world would have stopped looking. She 
looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that, and really she was afraid of so many 
things. 
 "And there's not a damn thing we could do," I said. 
 "I don't know," she said. "I don't want to go through that hell again." 
 "We'd better keep away from each other." 
 "But, darling, I have to see you. It isn't all that you know." 
 "No, but it always gets to be." 
 "That's my fault. Don't we pay for all the things we do, though?" 
 She had been looking into my eyes all the time. Her eyes had different depths, sometimes they seemed 
perfectly flat. Now you could see all the way into them. 
 "When I think of the hell I've put chaps through. I'm paying for it all now." 
 "Don't talk like a fool," I said. "Besides, what happened to me is supposed to be funny. I never think about it." 
 "Oh, no. I'll lay you don't." 
 "'Well, let's shut up about it." 
 "I laughed about it too, myself, once." She wasn't looking at me. "A friend of my brother's came home that 
way from Mons. It seemed like a hell of a joke. Chaps never know anything, do they?" 
 "No," I said. "Nobody ever knows anything." 
 I was pretty well through with the subject. At one time or another I had probably considered it from most of its 
various angles, including the one that certain injuries or imperfections are a subject of merriment while remaining 
quite serious for the person possessing them. 
 "It's funny," I said. "It's very funny. And it's a lot of fun, too, to be in love." 
 "Do you think so?" her eyes looked flat again. 
"I don't mean fun that way. In a way it's an enjoyable feeling." 
 "No," she said. "I think it's hell on earth." 
 "It's good to see each other." 
 "No. I don't think it is." 
 "Don't you want to?" 
 "I have to." 
 We were sitting now like two strangers. On the right was the Parc Montsouris. The restaurant where they have 
the pool of live trout and where you can sit and
 "Where do you want to go?" I asked. Brett turned her head away. 
 "Oh, go to the Select." 
 "Café Select," I told the driver. "Boulevard Montparnasse." We drove straight down, turning around the Lion 
de Belfort that guards the passing Montrouge trams. Brett looked straight ahead. On the Boulevard Raspail, with the 
lights of Montparnasse in sight, Brett said: "Would you mind very much if I asked you to do something?" 
 "Don't be silly." 
 "Kiss me just once more before we get there." 
 When the taxi stopped I got out and paid. Brett came out putting on her hat. She gave me her hand as she 
stepped down. Her hand was shaky. "I say, do I look too much of a mess?" She pulled her man's felt hat down and 
started in for the bar. Inside, against the bar and at tables, were most of the crowd who had been at the dance. 
 "Hello, you chaps," Brett said. "I'm going to have a drink." 
 "Oh, Brett! Brett!" the little Greek portrait-painter, who called himself a duke, and whom everybody called 
Zizi, pushed up to her. "I got something fine to tell you." 
 "Hello, Zizi," Brett said. 
 "I want you to meet a friend," Zizi said. A fat man came up. 
 "Count Mippipopolous, meet my friend Lady Ashley." 
 "How do you do?" said Brett. 
 "Well, does your Ladyship have a good time here in Paris?" asked Count Mippipopolous, who wore an elk's 
tooth on his watchchain. 
 "Rather," said Brett. 
 "Paris is a fine town all right," said the count. "But I guess you have pretty big doings yourself over in 
London." 
 "Oh, yes," said Brett. "Enormous." 
 Braddocks called to me from a table. "Barnes," he said, "have a drink. That girl of yours got in a frightful 
row." 
 "What about?" 
 "Something the patronne's daughter said. A corking row. She was rather splendid, you know. Showed her 
yellow card and demanded the patronne's daughter's too. I say it was a row." 
 "What finally happened?" 
 "Oh, some one took her home. Not a bad-looking girl. Wonderful command of the idiom. Do stay and have a 
drink." 
 "No," I said. "I must shove off. Seen Cohn?" 
 "He went home with Frances," Mrs. Braddock put in. 
 "Poor chap, he looks awfully down," Braddocks said. 
 "I dare say he is," said Mrs. Braddocks. 
"I have to shove off," I said. "Good night." 
 I said good night to Brett at the bar. The count was buying champagne. "Will you take a glass of wine with us, 
sir?" he asked. 
 "No. Thanks awfully. I have to go." 
 "Really going?" Brett asked. 
 "Yes," I said. "I've got a rotten headache." 
 "I'll see you to-morrow?" 
 "Come in at the office." 
 "Hardly." 
 "Well, where will I see you?" 
 "Anywhere around five o'clock." 
 "Make it the other side of town then." 
 "Good. I'll be at the Crillon at five." 
 "Try and be there," I said. 
 "Don't worry," Brett said. "I've never let you down, have I?" 
 "Heard from Mike?" 
 "Letter to-day." 
 "Good night, sir," said the count. 
 I went out onto the sidewalk and walked down toward the Boulevard St. Michel, passed the tables of the 
Rotonde, still crowded, looked across the Street at the Dome, its tables running out to the edge of the pavement. 
Some one waved at me from a table, I did not see who it was and went on. I wanted to get home. The Boulevard 
Montparnasse was deserted. Lavigne's was closed tight, and they were stacking the tables outside the Closerie des 
Lilas. I passed Ney's Statue standing among the new-leaved chestnut-trees in the arc-light. There was a faded purple 
wreath leaning against the base. I stopped and read the inscription: from the Bonapartist Groups, some date; I forget. 
He looked very fine, Marshal Ney in his top-boots, gesturing with his sword among the green new horse-chestnut 
leaves. My flat was just across the street, a little way down the Boulevard St. Michel. 
 There was a light in the concierge's room and I knocked on the door and she gave me my mail. I wished her 
good night and went up-stairs. There were two letters and some papers. I looked at them under the gas-light in the 
dining-room. The letters were from the States. One was a bank statement. It showed a balance of $2432.60. I got out 
my check-book and deducted four checks drawn since the first of the month, and discovered I had a balance of 
$1832.60. I wrote this on the back of the statement. The other letter was a wedding announcement. Mr. and Mrs. 
Aloysius Kirby announce the marriage of their daughter Katherine--I knew neither the girl nor the man she was 
marrying. They must be circularizing the town. It was a funny name. I felt Sure I could remember anybody with a 
name like Aloysius. It was a good Catholic name. There was a crest on the announcement. Like Zizi the Greek duke. 
And that count. The count was funny. Brett had a title, too. Lady Ashley. To hell with Brett. To hell with you, Lady 
Ashley. 
 I lit the lamp beside the bed, turned off the gas, and opened the wide windows. The bed was far back from the 
windows, and I sat with the windows open and undressed by the bed. Outside a night train, running on the street-car 
tracks, went by carrying vegetables to the markets. They were noisy at night when you could not sleep. Undressing, 
I looked at myself in the mirror of the big armoire beside the bed. That was a typically French way to furnish a room. 
Practical, too, I suppose. Of all the ways to be wounded. I suppose it was funny. I put on my pajamas and got into 
bed. I had the two bull-fight papers, and I took their wrappers off. One was orange. The other yellow. They would 
both have the same news, so whichever I read first would spoil the other. Le Toril was the better paper, so I 
started to read it. I read it all the way through, including the Petite Correspondance and the Cornigrams. I blew out 
the lamp. Perhaps I would be able to sleep. 
 My head started to work. The old grievance. Well, it was a rotten way to be wounded and flying on a joke 
front like the Italian. In the Italian hospital we were going to form a society. It had a funny name in Italian. I wonder 
what became of the others, the Italians. That was in the Ospedale Maggiore in Milano, Padiglione Ponte. The next 
building was the Padiglione Zonda. There was a statue of Ponte, or maybe it was Zonda. That was where the liaison 
colonel came to visit me. That was funny. That was about the first funny thing. I was all bandaged up. But they had 
told him about it. Then he made that wonderful speech: "You, a foreigner, an Englishman" (any foreigner was an 
Englishman) "have given more than your life." What a speech! I would like to have it illuminated to hang in the 
office. He never laughed. He was putting himself in my place, I guess. "Che mala fortuna! Che mala fortuna!" 
 I never used to realize it, I guess. I try and play it along and just not make trouble for people. Probably I never 
would have had any trouble if I hadn't run into Brett when they shipped me to England. I suppose she only wanted 
what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good 
way of handling all that. Good advice, anyway. Not to think about it. Oh, it was swell advice. Try and take it 
sometime. Try and take it. 
 I lay awake thinking and my mind jumping around. Then I couldn't keep away from it, and I started to think 
about Brett and all the rest of it went away. I was thinking about Brett and my mind stopped jumping around and 
started to go in sort of smooth waves. Then all of a sudden I started to cry. Then after a while it was better and I lay 
in bed and listened to the heavy trams go by and way down the street, and then I went to sleep. 
 I woke up. There was a row going on outside. I listened and I thought I recognized a voice. I put on a 
dressing-gown and went to the door. The concierge was talking down-stairs. She was very angry. I heard my name 
and called down the stairs. 
 "Is that you, Monsieur Barnes?" the concierge called. 
 "Yes. It's me." 
 "There's a species of woman here who's waked the whole street up. What kind of a dirty business at this time 
of night! She says she must see you. I've told her you're asleep." 
 Then I heard Brett's voice. Half asleep I had been sure it was Georgette. I don't know why. She could not have 
known my address. 
 "Will you send her up, please?" 
 Brett came up the stairs. I saw she was quite drunk. "Silly thing to do," she said. "Make an awful row. I say, 
you weren't asleep, were you?" 
 "What did you think I was doing?" 
 "Don't know. What time is it?" 
 I looked at the clock. It was half-past four. "Had no idea what hour it was," Brett said. "I say, can a chap sit 
down? Don't be cross, darling. Just left the count. He brought me here." 
 "What's he like?" I was getting brandy and soda and glasses. 
 "Just a little," said Brett. "Don't try and make me drunk. The count? Oh, rather. He's quite one of us." 
 "Is he a count?" 
 "Here's how. I rather think so, you know. Deserves to be, anyhow. Knows hell's own amount about people. 
Don't know where he got it all. Owns a chain of sweetshops in the States." 
 She sipped at her glass. 
 "Think he called it a chain. Something like that. Linked them all up. Told me a little about it. Damned 
interesting. He's one of us, though. Oh, quite. No doubt. One can always tell." 
 She took another drink. 
 "How do I buck on about all this? You don't mind, do you? He's putting up for Zizi, you know." 
"Is Zizi really a duke, too?" 
 "I shouldn't wonder. Greek, you know. Rotten painter. I rather liked the count." 
 "Where did you go with him?" 
 "Oh, everywhere. He just brought me here now. Offered me ten thousand dollars to go to Biarritz with him. 
How much is that in pounds?" 
 "Around two thousand." 
 "Lot of money. I told him I couldn't do it. He was awfully nice about it. Told him I knew too many people in 
Biarritz." 
 Brett laughed. 
 "I say, you are slow on the up-take," she said. I had only sipped my brandy and soda. I took a long drink. 
 "That's better. Very funny," Brett said. "Then he wanted me to go to Cannes with him. Told him I knew too 
many people in Cannes. Monte Carlo. Told him I knew too many people in Monte Carlo. Told him I knew too many 
people everywhere. Quite true, too. So I asked him to bring me here." 
 She looked at me, her hand on the table, her glass raised. "Don't look like that," she said. "Told him I was in 
love with you. True, too. Don't look like that. He was damn nice about it. Wants to drive us out to dinner to-morrow 
night. Like to go?" 
 "Why not?" 
 "I'd better go now." 
 "Why?" 
 "Just wanted to see you. Damned silly idea. Want to get dressed and come down? He's got the car just up the 
Street." 
 "The count?" 
 "Himself. And a chauffeur in livery. Going to drive me around and have breakfast in the Bois. Hampers. Got it 
all at Zelli's. Dozen bottles of Mumms. Tempt you?" 
 "I have to work in the morning," I said. "I'm too far behind you now to
 

 In the morning I walked down the Boulevard to the Rue Soufflot for coffee and brioche. It was a fine morning. 
The horse-chestnut trees in the Luxembourg gardens were in bloom. There was the pleasant early-morning feeling 
of a hot day. I read the papers with the coffee and then smoked a cigarette. The flower-women were coming up from 
the market and arranging their daily stock. Students went by going up to the law school, or down to the Sorbonne. 
The Boulevard was busy with trams and people going to work. I got on an S bus and rode down to the Madeleine, 
standing on the back platform. From the Madeleine I walked along the Boulevard des Capucines to the Opéra, and 
up to my office. I passed the man with the jumping frogs and the man with the boxer toys. I stepped aside to avoid 
walking into the thread with which his girl assistant manipulated the boxers. She was standing looking away, the 
thread in her folded hands. The man was urging two tourists to buy. Three more tourists had stopped and were 
watching. I walked on behind a man who was pushing a roller that printed the name CINZANO on the sidewalk in 
damp letters. All along people were going to work. It felt pleasant to be going to work. I walked across the avenue 
and turned in to my office. 
 Up-stairs in the office I read the French morning papers, smoked, and then sat at the typewriter and got off a 
good morning's work. At eleven o'clock I went over to the Quai d'Orsay in a taxi and went in and sat with about a 
dozen correspondents, while the foreign-office mouthpiece, a young Nouvelle Revue Francaise diplomat in 
hornrimmed spectacles, talked and answered questions for half an hour. The President of the Council was in Lyons 
making a speech, or, rather he was on his way back. Several people asked questions to hear themselves talk and 
there were a couple of questions asked by news service men who wanted to know the answers. There was no news. I 
shared a taxi back from the Quai d'Orsay with Woolsey and Krum. 
 "What do you do nights, Jake?" asked Krum. "I never see you around." 
 "Oh, I'm over in the Quarter." 
 "I'm coming over some night. The Dingo. That's the great place, isn't it?" 
 "Yes. That, or this new dive, the Select." 
 "I've meant to get over," said Krum. "You know how it is, though, with a wife and kids." 
 "Playing any tennis?" Woolsey asked. 
 "Well, no," said Krum. "I can't say I've played any this year. I've tried to get away, but Sundays it's always 
rained, and the courts are so damned crowded." 
 "The Englishmen all have Saturday off," Woolsey said. 
 "Lucky beggars," said Krum. "Well, I'll tell you. Some day I'm not going to be working for an agency. Then 
I'll have plenty of time to get out in the country." 
 "That's the thing to do. Live out in the country and have a little car." 
 "I've been thinking some about getting a car next year." 
 I banged on the glass. The chauffeur stopped. "Here's my street," I said. "Come in and have a drink." 
 "Thanks, old man," Krum said. Woolsey shook his head. "I've got to file that line he got off this morning." 
 I put a two-franc piece in Krum's hand. 
 "You're crazy, Jake," he said. "This is on me." 
 "It's all on the office, anyway." 
 "Nope. I want to get it." 
 I waved good-by. Krum put his head out. "See you at the lunch on Wednesday." 
 "You bet." 
 I went to the office in the elevator. Robert Cohn was waiting for me. "Hello, Jake," he said. "Going out to 
lunch?"
"Yes. Let me see if there is anything new." 
 "Where will we eat?" 
 "Anywhere." 
 I was looking over my desk. "Where do you want to eat?" 
 "How about Wetzel's? They've got good hors d'oeuvres." 
 In the restaurant we ordered hors d'oeuvres and beer. The sommelier brought the beer, tall, beaded on the 
outside of the stems, and cold. There were a dozen different dishes of hors d'oeuvres. 
 "Have any fun last night?" I asked. 
 "No. I don't think so." 
 "How's the writing going?" 
 "Rotten. I can't get this second book going." 
 "That happens to everybody." 
 "Oh, I'm sure of that. It gets me worried, though." 
 "Thought any more about going to South America?" 
 "I mean that." 
 "Well, why don't you start off?" 
 "Frances." 
 "Well," I said, "take her with you." 
 "She wouldn't like it. That isn't the sort of thing she likes. She likes a lot of people around." 
 "Tell her to go to hell." 
 "I can't. I've got certain obligations to her." 
 He shoved the sliced cucumbers away and took a pickled herring. 
 "What do you know about Lady Brett Ashley, Jake?" 
 "Her name's Lady Ashley. Brett's her own name. She's a nice girl," I said. "She's getting a divorce and she's 
going to marry Mike Campbell. He's over in Scotland now. Why?" 
 "She's a remarkably attractive woman." 
 "Isn't she?" 
 "There's a certain quality about her, a certain fineness. She seems to be absolutely fine and straight." 
 "She's very nice." 
 "I don't know how to describe the quality," Cohn said. "I suppose it's breeding." 
 "You sound as though you liked her pretty well." 
 "I do. I shouldn't wonder if I were in love with her." 
 "She's a drunk," I said. "She's in love with Mike Campbell, and she's going to marry him. He's going to be rich 
as hell some day." 
 "I don't believe she'll ever marry him." 
 "Why not?" 
 "I don't know. I just don't believe it. Have you known her a long time?" 
 "Yes," I said. "She was a V. A. D. in a hospital I was in during the war." 
 "She must have been just a kid then." 
 "She's thirty-four now." 
 "When did she marry Ashley?" 
 "During the war. Her own true love had just kicked off with the dysentery." 
 "You talk sort of bitter." 
 "Sorry. I didn't mean to. I was just trying to give you the facts." 
"I don't believe she would marry anybody she didn't love." 
 "Well," I said. "She's done it twice." 
 "I don't believe it." 
 "Well," I said, "don't ask me a lot of fool questions if you don't like the answers." 
 "I didn't ask you that." 
 "You asked me what I knew about Brett Ashley." 
 "I didn't ask you to insult her." 
 "Oh, go to hell." 
 He stood up from the table his face white, and stood there white and angry behind the little plates of hors 
d'ceuvres. 
 "Sit down," I said. "Don't be a fool." 
 "You've got to take that back." 
 "Oh, cut out the prep-school stuff." 
 "Take it back." 
 "Sure. Anything. I never heard of Brett Ashley. How's that?" 
 "No. Not that. About me going to hell." 
 "Oh, don't go to hell," I said. "Stick around. We're just starting lunch." 
 Cohn smiled again and sat down. He seemed glad to sit down. What the hell would he have done if he hadn't 
sat down? "You say such damned insulting things, Jake." 
 "I'm sorry. I've got a nasty tongue. I never mean it when I say nasty things." 
 "I know it," Cohn said. "You're really about the best friend I have, Jake." 
 God help you, I thought. "Forget what I said," I said out loud. "I'm sorry." 
 "It's all right. It's fine. I was just sore for a minute." 
 "Good. Let's get something else to eat." 
 After we finished the lunch we walked up to the Café de la Paix and had coffee. I could feel Cohn wanted to 
bring up Brett again, but I held him off it. We talked about one thing and another, and I left him to come to the 
office. 
At five o'clock I was in the Hotel Crillon waiting for Brett. She was not there, so I sat down and wrote some 
letters. They were not very good letters but I hoped their being on Crillon stationery would help them. Brett did not 
turn up, so about quarter to six I went down to the bar and had a Jack Rose with George the barman. Brett had not 
been in the bar either, and so I looked for her up-stairs on my way out, and took a taxi to the Café Select. Crossing 
the Seine I saw a string of barges being towed empty down the current, riding high, the bargemen at the sweeps as 
they came toward the bridge. The river looked nice. It was always pleasant crossing bridges in Paris. 
 The taxi rounded the statue of the inventor of the semaphore engaged in doing same, and turned up the 
Boulevard Raspail, and I sat back to let that part of the ride pass. The Boulevard Raspail always made dull riding. It 
was like a certain stretch on the P.L.M. between Fontainebleau and Montereau that always made me feel bored and 
dead and dull until it was over. I suppose it is some association of ideas that makes those dead places in a journey. 
There are other streets in Paris as ugly as the Boulevard Raspail. It is a street I do not mind walking down at all. But 
I cannot stand to ride along it. Perhaps I had read something about it once. That was the way Robert Cohn was about 
all of Paris. I wondered where Cohn got that incapacity to enjoy Paris. Possibly from Mencken. Mencken hates 
Paris, I believe. So many young men get their likes and dislikes from Mencken. 
 The taxi stopped in front of the Rotonde. No matter what café in Montparnasse you ask a taxi-driver to bring 
you to from the right bank of the river, they always take you to the Rotonde. Ten years from now it will probably be 
the Dome. It was near enough, anyway. I walked past the sad tables of the Rotonde to the Select. There were a few 
people inside at the bar, and outside, alone, sat Harvey Stone. He had a pile of saucers in front of him, and he 
needed a shave. 
 "Sit down," said Harvey, "I've been looking for you." 
 "What's the matter?" 
 "Nothing. Just looking for you." 
 "Been out to the races?" 
 "No. Not since Sunday." 
 "What do you hear from the States?" 
 "Nothing. Absolutely nothing." 
 "What's the matter?" 
 "I don't know. I'm through with them. I'm absolutely through with them." 
 He leaned forward and looked me in the eye. 
 "Do you want to know something, Jake?" 
 "Yes." 
 "I haven't had anything to eat for five days." 
 I figured rapidly back in my mind. It was three days ago that Harvey had won two hundred francs from me 
shaking poker dice in the New York Bar. 
 "What's the matter?" 
 "No money. Money hasn't come," he paused. "I tell you it's strange, Jake. When I'm like this I just want to be 
alone. I want to stay in my own room. I'm like a cat." 
 I felt in my pocket. 
 "Would a hundred help you any, Harvey?" 
 "Yes." 
 "Come on. Let's go and eat." 
 "There's no hurry. Have a drink."
  "Better eat." 
 "No. When I get like this I don't care whether I eat or not." 
 We had a drink. Harvey added my saucer to his own pile. 
 "Do you know Mencken, Harvey?" 
 "Yes. Why?" 
 "What's he like?" 
 "He's all right. He says some pretty funny things. Last time I had dinner with him we talked about 
Hoffenheimer. 'The trouble is,' he said, 'he's a garter snapper.' That's not bad." 
 "That's not bad." 
 "He's through now," Harvey went on. "He's written about all the things he knows, and now he's on all the 
things he doesn't know." 
 "I guess he's all right," I said. "I just can't read him." 
 "Oh, nobody reads him now," Harvey said, "except the people that used to read the Alexander Hamilton 
Institute." 
 "Well," I said. "That was a good thing, too." 
 "Sure," said Harvey. So


 