Robert Cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of Princeton. Do not think that I am very much 
impressed by that as a boxing title, but it meant a lot to Cohn. He cared nothing for boxing, in fact he disliked it, but 
he learned it painfully and thoroughly to counteract the feeling of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being 
treated as a Jew at Princeton. There was a certain inner comfort in knowing he could knock down anybody who was 
snooty to him, although, being very shy and a thoroughly nice boy, he never fought except in the gym. He was 
Spider Kelly's star pupil. Spider Kelly taught all his young gentlemen to box like featherweights, no matter whether 
they weighed one hundred and five or two hundred and five pounds. But it seemed to fit Cohn. He was really very 
fast. He was so good that Spider promptly overmatched him and got his nose permanently flattened. This increased 
Cohn's distaste for boxing, but it gave him a certain satisfaction of some strange sort, and it certainly improved his 
nose. In his last year at Princeton he read too much and took to wearing spectacles. I never met any one of his class 
who remembered him. They did not even remember that he was middleweight boxing champion. 
 I mistrust all frank and simple people, especially when their stories hold together, and I always had a suspicion 
that perhaps Robert Cohn had never been middleweight boxing champion, and that perhaps a horse had stepped on 
his face, or that maybe his mother had been frightened or seen something, or that he had, maybe, bumped into 
something as a young child, but I finally had somebody verify the story from Spider Kelly. Spider Kelly not only 
remembered Cohn. He had often wondered what had become of him. 
 Robert Cohn was a member, through his father, of one of the richest Jewish families in New York, and through 
his mother of one of the oldest. At the military school where he prepped for Princeton, and played a very good end 
on the football team, no one had made him race-conscious. No one had ever made him feel he was a Jew, and hence 
any different from anybody else, until he went to Princeton. He was a nice boy, a friendly boy, and very shy, and it 
made him bitter. He took it out in boxing, and he came out of Princeton with painful self-consciousness and the 
flattened nose, and was married by the first girl who was nice to him. He was married five years, had three children, 
lost most of the fifty thousand dollars his father left him, the balance of the estate having gone to his mother, 
hardened into a rather unattractive mould under domestic unhappiness with a rich wife; and just when he had made 
up his mind to leave his wife she left him and went off with a miniature-painter. As he had been thinking for months 
about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be too cruel to deprive her of himself, her departure was 
a very healthful shock. 
 The divorce was arranged and Robert Cohn went out to the Coast. In California he fell among literary people 
and, as he still had a little of the fifty thousand left, in a short time he was backing a review of the Arts. The review 
commenced publication in Carmel, California, and finished in Provincetown, Massachusetts. By that time Cohn, 
who had been regarded purely as an angel, and whose name had appeared on the editorial page merely as a member 
of the advisory board, had become the sole editor. It was his money and he discovered he liked the authority of 
editing. He was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he had to give it up. 
 By that time, though, he had other things to worry about. He had been taken in hand by a lady who hoped to 
rise with the magazine. She was very forceful, and Cohn never had a chance of not being taken in hand. Also he was 
sure that he loved her. When this lady saw that the magazine was not going to rise, she became a little disgusted 
with Cohn and decided that she might as well get what there was to get while there was still something available, so
she urged that they go to Europe, where Cohn could write. They came to Europe, where the lady had been educated, 
and stayed three years. During these three years, the first spent in travel, the last two in Paris, Robert Cohn had two 
friends, Braddocks and myself. Braddocks was his literary friend. I was his tennis friend. 
 The lady who had him, her name was Frances, found toward the end of the second year that her looks were 
going, and her attitude toward Robert changed from one of careless possession and exploitation to the absolute 
determination that he should marry her. During this time Robert's mother had settled an allowance on him, about 
three hundred dollars a month. During two years and a half I do not believe that Robert Cohn looked at another 
woman. He was fairly happy, except that, like many people living in Europe, he would rather have been in America, 
and he had discovered writing. He wrote a novel, and it was not really such a bad novel as the critics later called it, 
although it was a very poor novel. He read many books, played bridge, played tennis, and boxed at a local 
gymnasium. 
 I first became aware of his lady's attitude toward him one night after the three of us had dined together. We 
had dined at l'Avenue's and afterward went to the Café de Versailles for coffee. We had several fines after the 
coffee, and I said I must be going. Cohn had been talking about the two of us going off somewhere on a weekend 
trip. He wanted to get out of town and get in a good walk. I suggested we fly to Strasbourg and walk up to Saint 
Odile, or somewhere or other in Alsace. "I know a girl in Strasbourg who can show us the town," I said. 
 Somebody kicked me under the table. I thought it was accidental and went on: "She's been there two years and 
knows everything there is to know about the town. She's a swell girl." 
 I was kicked again under the table and, looking, saw Frances, Robert's lady, her chin lifting and her face 
hardening. 
 "Hell," I said, "why go to Strasbourg? We could go up to Bruges, or to the Ardennes." 
 Cohn looked relieved. I was not kicked again. I said good-night and went out. Cohn said he wanted to buy a 
paper and would walk to the corner with me. "For God's sake," he said, "why did you say that about that girl in 
Strasbourg for? Didn't you see Frances?" 
 "No, why should I? If I know an American girl that lives in Strasbourg what the hell is it to Frances?" 
 "It doesn't make any difference. Any girl. I couldn't go, that would be all." 
 "Don't be silly." 
 "You don't know Frances. Any girl at all. Didn't you see the way she looked?" 
 "Oh, well," I said, "let's go to Senlis." 
 "Don't get sore." 
 "I'm not sore. Senlis is a good place and we can stay at the Grand Cerf and take a hike in the woods and come 
home." 
 "Good, that will be fine." 
 "Well, I'll see you to-morrow at the courts," I said. 
 "Good-night, Jake," he said, and started back to the café. 
 "You forgot to get your paper," I said. 
 "That's so." He walked with me up to the kiosque at the corner. "You are not sore, are you, Jake?" He turned 
with the paper in his hand. 
 "No, why should I be?" 
 "See you at tennis," he said. I watched him walk back to the café holding his paper. I rather liked him and 
evidently she led him quite a life. 
That winter Robert Cohn went over to America with his novel, and it was accepted by a fairly good publisher. 
His going made an awful row I heard, and I think that was where Frances lost him, because several women were 
nice to him in New York, and when he came back he was quite changed. He was more enthusiastic about America 
than ever, and he was not so simple, and he was not so nice. The publishers had praised his novel pretty highly and 
it rather went to his head. Then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him, and his horizons had all 
shifted. For four years his horizon had been absolutely limited to his wife. For three years, or almost three years, he 
had never seen beyond Frances. I am sure he had never been in love in his life. 
 He had married on the rebound from the rotten time he had in college, and Frances took him on the rebound 
from his discovery that he had not been everything to his first wife. He was not in love yet but he realized that he 
was an attractive quantity to women, and that the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was 
not simply a divine miracle. This changed him so that he was not so pleasant to have around. Also, playing for 
higher stakes than he could afford in some rather steep bridge games with his New York connections, he had held 
cards and won several hundred dollars. It made him rather vain of his bridge game, and he talked several times of 
how a man could always make a living at bridge if he were ever forced to. 
 Then there was another thing. He had been reading W. H. Hudson. That sounds like an innocent occupation, 
but Cohn had read and reread "The Purple Land." "The Purple Land" is a very sinister book if read too late in life. It 
recounts splendid imaginary amorous adventures of a perfect English gentleman in an intensely romantic land, the 
scenery of which is very well described. For a man to take it at thirty-four as a guide-book to what life holds is 
about as safe as it would be for a man of the same age to enter Wall Street direct from a French convent, equipped 
with a complete set of the more practical Alger books. Cohn, I believe, took every word of "The Purple Land" as 
literally as though it had been an R. G. Dun report. You understand me, he made some reservations, but on the whole 
the book to him was sound. It was all that was needed to set him off. I did not realize the extent to which it had set 
him off until one day he came into my office. 
 "Hello, Robert," I said. "Did you come in to cheer me up?" 
 "Would you like to go to South America, Jake?" he asked. 
 "No." 
 "Why not?" 
 "I don't know. I never wanted to go. Too expensive. You can see all the South Americans you want in Paris 
anyway." 
 "They're not the real South Americans." 
 "They look awfully real to me." 
 I had a boat train to catch with a week's mail stories, and only half of them written. 
 "Do you know any dirt?" I asked. 
 "No." 
 "None of your exalted connections getting divorces?" 
 "No; listen, Jake. If I handled both our expenses, would you go to South America with me?" 
 "Why me?" 
 "You can talk Spanish. And it would be more fun with two of us." 
 "No," I said, "I like this town and I go to Spain in the summertime." 
 "All my life I've wanted to go on a trip like that," Cohn said. He sat down. "I'll be too old before I can ever do 
it." 
 "Don't be a fool," I said. 
