"I know. But I can't get started." 
 "Cheer up," I said. "All countries look just like the moving pictures." 
 But I felt sorry for him. He had it badly. 
 "I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it." 
 "Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bullfighters." 
 "I'm not interested in bull-fighters. That's an abnormal life. I want to go back in the country in South America. 
We could have a great trip." 
 "Did you ever think about going to British East Africa to shoot?" 
 "No, I wouldn't like that." 
 "I'd go there with you." 
 "No; that doesn't interest me." 
 "That's because you never read a book about it. Go on and read a book all full of love affairs with the beautiful 
shiny black princesses." 
 "I want to go to South America." 
 He had a hard, Jewish, stubborn streak. 
 "Come on down-stairs and have a drink." 
 "Aren't you working?" 
 "No," I said. We went down the stairs to the café on the ground floor. I had discovered that was the best way to 
get rid of friends. Once you had a drink all you had to say was: "Well, I've got to get back and get off some cables," 
and it was done. It is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business, where it is such 
an important part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working. Anyway, we went down-stairs to the bar 
and had a whiskey and soda. Cohn looked at the bottles in bins around the wall. "This is a good place," he said. 
 "There's a lot of liquor," I agreed. 
 "Listen, Jake," he leaned forward on the bar. "Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and 
you're not taking advantage of it? Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?" 
 "Yes, every once in a while." 
 "Do you know that in about thirty-five years more we'll be dead?" 
 "What the hell, Robert," I said. "What the hell." 
 "I'm serious." 
 "It's one thing I don't worry about," I said. 
 "You ought to." 
 "I've had plenty to worry about one time or other. I'm through worrying." 
 "Well, I want to go to South America." 
 "Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away 
from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." 
 "But you've never been to South America." 
 "South America hell! If you went there the way you feel now it would be exactly the same. This is a good 
town. Why don't you start living your life in Paris?" 
 "I'm sick of Paris, and I'm sick of the Quarter." 
 "Stay away from the Quarter. Cruise around by yourself and see what happens to you." 
 "Nothing happens to me. I walked alone all one night and nothing happened except a bicycle cop stopped me 
and asked to see my papers." 
 "Wasn't the town nice at night?" 
 "I don't care for Paris." 
It was a warm spring night and I sat at a table on the terrace of the Napolitain after Robert had gone, watching 
it get dark and the electric signs come on, and the red and green stop-and-go traffic-signal, and the crowd going by, 
and the horse-cabs clippety-clopping along at the edge of the solid taxi traffic, and the poules going by, singly and 
in pairs, looking for the evening meal. I watched a good-looking girl walk past the table and watched her go up the 
street and lost sight of her, and watched another, and then saw the first one coming back again. She went by once 
more and I caught her eye, and she came over and sat down at the table. The waiter came up. 
 "Well, what will you drink?" I asked. 
 "Pernod." 
 "That's not good for little girls." 
 "Little girl yourself. Dites garcon, un pernod." 
 "A pernod for me, too." 
 "What's the matter?" she asked. "Going on a party?" 
 "Sure. Aren't you?" 
 "I don't know. You never know in this town." 
 "Don't you like Paris?" 
 "No." 
 "Why don't you go somewhere else?" 
 "Isn't anywhere else." 
 "You're happy, all right." 
 "Happy, hell!" 
 Pernod is greenish imitation absinthe. When you add water it turns milky. It tastes like licorice and it has a 
good uplift, but it drops you just as far. We sat and drank it, and the girl looked sullen. 
 "Well," I said, "are you going to buy me a dinner?" 
 She grinned and I saw why she made a point of not laughing. With her mouth closed she was a rather pretty 
girl. I paid for the saucers and we walked out to the street. I hailed a horse-cab and the driver pulled up at the curb. 
Settled back in the slow, smoothly rolling fiacre we moved up the Avenue de l'Opéra, passed the locked doors of 
the shops, their windows lighted, the Avenue broad and shiny and almost deserted. The cab passed the New York 
Herald bureau with the window full of clocks. 
 "What are all the clocks for?" she asked. 
 "They show the hour all over America." 
 "Don't kid me." 
 We turned off the Avenue up the Rue des Pyramides, through the traffic of the Rue de Rivoli, and through a 
dark gate into the Tuileries. She cuddled against me and I put my arm around her. She looked up to be kissed. She 
touched me with one hand and I put her hand away. 
 "Never mind." 
 "What's the matter? You sick?" 
 "Yes." 
 "Everybody's sick. I'm sick, too." 
 We came out of the Tuileries into the light and crossed the Seine and then turned up the Rue des Saints Pères. 
 "You oughtn't to drink pernod if you're sick." 
 "You neither." 
 "It doesn't make any difference with me. It doesn't make any difference with a woman." 
"What are you called?" 
 "Georgette. How are you called?" 
 "Jacob." 
 "That's a Flemish name." 
 "American too." 
 "You're not Flamand?" 
 "No, American." 
 "Good, I detest Flamands." 
 By this time we were at the restaurant. I called to the cocher to stop. We got out and Georgette did not like 
the looks of the place. "This is no great thing of a restaurant." 
 "No," I said. "Maybe you would rather go to Foyot's. Why don't you keep the cab and go on?" 
 I had picked her up because of a vague sentimental idea that it would be nice to eat with some one. It was a 
long time since I had dined with a poule, and I had forgotten how dull it could be. We went into the restaurant, 
passed Madame Lavigne at the desk and into a little room. Georgette cheered up a little under the food. 
 "It isn't bad here," she said. "It isn't chic, but the food is all right." 
 "Better than you eat in Liege." 
 "Brussels, you mean." 
 We had another bottle of wine and Georgette made a joke. She smiled and showed all her bad teeth, and we 
touched glasses. 
 "You're not a bad type," she said. "It's a shame you're sick. We get on well. What's the matter with you, 
anyway?" 
 "I got hurt in the war," I said. 
 "Oh, that dirty war." 
 We would probably have gone on and discussed the war and agreed that it was in reality a calamity for 
civilization, and perhaps would have been better avoided. I was bored enough. Just then from the other room some 
one called: "Barnes! I say, Barnes! Jacob Barnes! 
 "It's a friend calling me," I explained, and went out. 
 There was Braddocks at a big table with a party: Cohn, Frances Clyne, Mrs. Braddocks, several people I did 
not know. 
 "You're coming to the dance, aren't you?" Braddocks asked. 
 "What dance?" 
 "Why, the dancings. Don't you know we've revived them?" Mrs. Braddocks put in. 
 "You must come, Jake. We're all going," Frances said from the end of the table. She was tall and had a smile. 
 "Of course, he's coming," Braddocks said. "Come in and have coffee with us, Barnes." 
 "Right." 
 "And bring your friend," said Mrs. Braddocks laughing. She was a Canadian and had all their easy social 
graces. 
 "Thanks, we'll be in," I said. I went back to the small room. 
 "Who are your friends?" Georgette asked. 
 "Writers and artists." 
 "There are lots of those on this side of the river." 
 "Too many." 
 "I think so. Still, some of them make money." 
 "Oh, yes."
 We finished the meal and the wine. "Come on," I said. "We're going to have coffee with the others." 
 Georgette opened her bag, made a few passes at her face as she looked in the little mirror, re-defined her lips 
with the lip-stick, and straightened her hat. 
 "Good," she said. 
 We went into the room full of people and Braddocks and the men at his table stood up. 
 "I wish to present my fiancée, Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc," I said. Georgette smiled that wonderful 
smile, and we shook hands all round. 
 "Are you related to Georgette Leblanc, the singer?" Mrs. Braddocks asked. 
 "Connais pas," Georgette answered. 
 "But you have the same name," Mrs. Braddocks insisted cordially. 
 "No," said Georgette. "Not at all. My name is Hobin." 
 "But Mr. Barnes introduced you as Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc. Surely he did," insisted Mrs. Braddocks, 
who in the excitement of talking French was liable to have no idea what she was saying. 
 "He's a fool," Georgette said. 
 "Oh, it was a joke, then," Mrs. Braddocks said. 
 "Yes," said Georgette. "To laugh at." 
 "Did you hear that, Henry?" Mrs. Braddocks called down the table to Braddocks. "Mr. Barnes introduced his 
fiancee as Mademoiselle Leblanc, and her name is actually Hobin." 
 "Of course, darling. Mademoiselle Hobin, I've known her for a very long time." 
 "Oh, Mademoiselle Hobin," Frances Clyne calIed, speaking French very rapidly and not seeming so proud and 
astonished as Mrs. Braddocks at its coming out really French. "Have you been in Paris long? Do you like it here? 
You love Paris, do you not?" 
 "Who's she?" Georgette turned to me. "Do I have to talk to her?" 
 She turned to Frances, sitting smiling, her hands folded, her head poised on her long neck, her lips pursed 
ready to start talking again. 
 "No, I don't like Paris. It's expensive and dirty." 
 "Really? I find it so extraordinarily clean. One of the cleanest cities in all Europe." 
 "I find it dirty." 
 "How strange! But perhaps you have not been here very long." 
 "I've been here long enough." 
 "But it does have nice people in it. One must grant that." 
 Georgette turned to me. "You have nice friends." 
 Frances was a little drunk and would have liked to have kept it up but the coffee came, and Lavigne with the 
liqueurs, and after that we all went out and started for Braddocks's dancing-club. 
 The dancing-club was a bal musette in the Rue de la Montagne Sainte Genevieve. Five nights a week the 
working people of the Pantheon quarter danced there. One night a week it was the dancingclub. On Monday nights 
it was closed. When we arrived it was quite empty, except for a policeman sitting near the door, the wife of the 
proprietor back of the zinc bar, and the proprietor himself. The daughter of the house came down-stairs as we went 
in. There were long benches, and tables ran across the room, and at the far end a dancing-floor. 
 "I wish people would come earlier," Braddocks said. The daughter came up and wanted to know what we 
would drink. The proprietor got up on a high stool beside the dancing-floor and began to play the accordion. He had 
a string of bells around one of his ankles and beat time with his foot as he played. Every one danced. It was hot and 
we came off the floor perspiring. 
 "My God," Georgette said. "What a box to sweat in!" 
"It's hot." 
 "Hot, my