The hills across the valley of the Ebro were long and white. On this side there was no shade and 
no trees and the station was between two lines of rails in the sun. Close against the side of the 
station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain, made of strings of bamboo 
beads, hung across the open door into the bar, to keep out flies. The American and the girl with 
him sat at a table in the shade, outside the building. It was very hot and the express from 
Barcelona would come in forty minutes. It stopped at this junction for two minutes and went to 
Madrid. 
"What should we drink?" the girl asked. She had taken off her hat and put it on the table. 
"It’s pretty hot," the man said. 
"Let’s drink beer." 
"Dos cervezas," the man said into the curtain. 
"Big ones?" a woman asked from the doorway. 
"Yes. Two big ones." 
The woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads. She put the felt pads and the beer 
glass on the table and looked at the man and the girl. The girl was looking off at the line of hills. 
They were white in the sun and the country was brown and dry. 
"They look like white elephants," she said. 
"I’ve never seen one," the man drank his beer. 
"No, you wouldn’t have." 
"I might have," the man said. "Just because you say I wouldn’t have doesn’t prove anything." 
The girl looked at the bead curtain. "They’ve painted something on it," she said. "What does it 
say?" 
"Anis del Toro. It’s a drink." 
"Could we try it?" 
The man called "Listen’ through the curtain. The woman came out from the bar. 
"Four reales." "We want two Anis del Toro." 
"With water?" 
"Do you want it with water?" 
"I don't know," the girl said. "Is it good with water?" 
"It’s all right." 
"You want them with water?" asked the woman. 
"Yes, with water." 
"It tastes like liquorice," the girl said and put the glass down. 
"That’s the way with everything." 
"Yes," said the girl. "Everything tastes of liquorice. Especially all the things you’ve waited so 
long for, like absinthe." 
"Oh, cut it out." 
"You started it," the girl said. "I was being amused. I was having a fine time." 
"Well, let’s try and have a fine time." 
"All right. I was trying. I said the mountains looked like white elephants. Wasn’t that bright?" 
"That was bright." 
"I wanted to try this new drink. That’s all we do, isn’t it – look at things and try new drinks?" 
"I guess so." 
The girl looked across at the hills. "They’re lovely hills," she said. "They don’t really look like white elephants. I just meant the 
colouring of their skin through the trees." 
"Should we have another drink?" 
"All right." 
The warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table. 
"The beer’s nice and cool," the man said. 
"It’s lovely," the girl said. 
"It’s really an awfully simple operation, Jig," the man said. "It’s not really an operation at all." 
The girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on. 
"I know you wouldn’t mind it, Jig. It’s really not anything. It’s just to let the air in." 
The girl did not say anything. 
"I’ll go with you and I’ll stay with you all the time. They just let the air in and then it’s all 
perfectly natural." 
"Then what will we do afterwards?" 
"We’ll be fine afterwards. Just like we were before." 
"What makes you think so?" 
"That’s the only thing that bothers us. It’s the only thing that’s made us unhappy." 
The girl looked at the bead curtain, put her hand out and took hold of two of the strings of beads. 
"And you think then we’ll be all right and be happy." 
"I know we will. Yon don’t have to be afraid. I’ve known lots of people that have done it." 
"So have I," said the girl. "And afterwards they were all so happy." 
"Well," the man said, "if you don’t want to you don’t have to. I wouldn’t have you do it if you 
didn’t want to. But I know it’s perfectly simple." 
"And you really want to?" 
"I think it’s the best thing to do. But I don’t want you to do it if you don’t really want to." 
"And if I do it you’ll be happy and things will be like they were and you’ll love me?" 
"I love you now. You know I love you." 
"I know. But if I do it, then it will be nice again if I say things are like white elephants, and you’ll 
like it?" 
"I’ll love it. I love it now but I just can’t think about it. You know how I get when I worry." 
"If I do it you won’t ever worry?" 
"I won’t worry about that because it’s perfectly simple." 
"Then I’ll do it. Because I don’t care about me." 
"What do you mean?" 
"I don’t care about me." 
"Well, I care about you." 
"Oh, yes. But I don’t care about me. And I’ll do it and then everything will be fine." 
"I don’t want you to do it if you feel that way." 
The girl stood up and walked to the end of the station. Across, on the other side, were fields of 
grain and trees along the banks of the Ebro. Far away, beyond the river, were mountains. The 
shadow of a cloud moved across the field of grain and she saw the river through the trees. 
"And we could have all this," she said. "And we could have everything and every day we make it 
more impossible." 
"What did you say?" 
"I said we could have everything." 
"We can have everything." "No, we can’t." 
"We can have the whole world." 
"No, we can’t." 
"We can go everywhere." 
"No, we can’t. It isn’t ours any more." 
"It’s ours." 
"No, it isn’t. And once they take it away, you never get it back." 
"But they haven’t taken it away." 
"We’ll wait and see." 
"Come on back in the shade," he said. "You mustn’t feel that way." 
"I don’t feel any way," the girl said. "I just know things." 
"I don’t want you to do anything that you don’t want to do -" 
"Nor that isn’t good for me," she said. "I know. Could we have another beer?" 
"All right. But you’ve got to realize – " 
"I realize," the girl said. "Can’t we maybe stop talking?" 
They sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of the valley and 
the man looked at her and at the table. 
"You’ve got to realize," he said, " that I don’t want you to do it if you don’t want to. I’m perfectly 
willing to go through with it if it means anything to you." 
"Doesn’t it mean anything to you? We could get along." 
"Of course it does. But I don’t want anybody but you. I don’t want anyone else. And I know it’s 
perfectly simple." 
"Yes, you know it’s perfectly simple." 
"It’s all right for you to say that, but I do know it." 
"Would you do something for me now?" 
"I’d do anything for you." 
"Would you please please please please please please please stop talking?" 
He did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station. There were labels 
on them from all the hotels where they had spent nights. 
"But I don’t want you to," he said, "I don’t care anything about it." 
"I’ll scream," the girl siad. 
The woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the 
damp felt pads. "The train comes in five minutes," she said. 
"What did she say?" asked the girl. 
"That the train is coming in five minutes." 
The girl smiled brightly at the woman, to thank her. 
"I’d better take the bags over to the other side of the station," the man said. She smiled at him. 
"All right. Then come back and we’ll finish the beer." 
He picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks. He 
looked up the tracks but could not see the train. Coming back, he walked through the bar-room, 
where people waiting for the train were drinking. He drank an Anis at the bar and looked at the 
people. They were all waiting reasonably for the train. He went out through the bead curtain. She 
was sitting at the table and smiled at him. 
"Do you feel better?" he asked. 
"I feel fine," she said. "There’s nothing wrong with me. I feel fine.’ 
It was very late and everyone had left the cafe except an old man who sat in the shadow the leaves of the tree made against the electric light. In the day time the street was dusty, but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the difference. The two waiters inside the cafe knew that the old man was a little drunk, and while he was a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying, so they kept watch on him. 

"Last week he tried to commit suicide," one waiter said. 

"Why?" 

"He was in despair." 

"What about?" 

"Nothing." 

"How do you know it was nothing?" 

"He has plenty of money." 

They sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the cafe and looked at the terrace where the tableswere all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind. A girl and a soldier went by in the street. The street light shone on the brass number on his collar. The girl wore no head covering and hurried beside him. 

"The guard will pick him up," one waiter said. 

"What does it matter if he gets what he's after?" 

"He had better get off the street now. The guard will get him. They went by five minutes ago." 

The old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass. The younger waiter went over to him. 

"What do you want?" 

The old man looked at him. "Another brandy," he said. 

"You'll be drunk," the waiter said. The old man looked at him. The waiter went away. 

"He'll stay all night," he said to his colleague. "I'm sleepy now.I never get into bed before three o'clock. He should have killed himself last week." 

The waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from thecounter inside the cafe and marched out to the old man's table. Heput down the saucer and poured the glass full of brandy. 

"You should have killed yourself last week," he said to the deafman. The old man motioned with his finger. "A little more," hesaid. The waiter poured on into the glass so that the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the top saucer of the pile."Thank you," the old man said. The waiter took the bottle back inside the cafe. He sat down at the table with his colleague again.

"He's drunk now," he said. 

"He's drunk every night." 

"What did he want to kill himself for?" 

"How should I know." 

"How did he do it?" 

"He hung himself with a rope." 

"Who cut him down?" 

"His niece." 

"Why did they do it?" 

"Fear for his soul." 

"How much money has he got?" "He's got plenty." 

"He must be eighty years old." 

"Anyway I should say he was eighty." 

"I wish he would go home. I never get to bed before three o'clock.What kind of hour is that to go to bed?" 

"He stays up because he

