cramps and I feel strong. It is he that has the hook in his mouth.
But what a fish to pull like that. He must have his mouth shut tight on the wire. I wish I 
could see him. I wish I could see him only once to know what I have against me. 
The fish never changed his course nor his direction all that night as far as the 
man could tell from watching the stars. It was cold after the sun went down and the old 
man’s sweat dried cold on his back and his arms and his old legs. During the day he had 
taken the sack that covered the bait box and spread it in the sun to dry. After the sun 
went down he tied it around his neck so that it hung down over his back and he 
cautiously worked it down under the line that was across his shoulders now. The sack 
cushioned the line and he had found a way of leaning forward against the bow so that he 
was almost comfortable. The position actually was only somewhat less intolerable; but he 
thought of it as almost comfortable. 
I can do nothing with him and he can do nothing with me, he thought. Not as long as 
he keeps this up. 
Once he stood up and urinated over the side of the skiff and looked at the stars and 
checked his course. The line showed like a phosphorescent streak in the water straight 
out from his shoulders. They were moving more slowly now and the glow of Havana was 
not so strong, so that he knew the current must be carrying them to the eastward. If I lose 
the glare of Havana we must be going more to the eastward, he thought. For if the fish’s 
course held true I must see it for many more hours. I wonder how the baseball came 
out in the grand leagues today, he thought. It would be wonderful to do this with a radio. 
Then he thought, think of it always. Think of what you are doing. You must do nothing 
stupid. 
Then he said aloud, “I wish I had the boy. To help me and to see this.” 
No one should be alone in their old age, he thought. But it is unavoidable. I must 
remember to eat the tuna before he spoils in order to keep strong. Remember, no matter 
how little you want to, that you must eat him in the morning. Remember, he said to 
himself. 
During the night two porpoises came around the boat and he could hear them rolling 
and blowing. He could tell the difference between the blowing noise the male made and 
the sighing blow of the female. 
“They are good,” he said. “They play and make jokes and love one another. They are 
our brothers like the flying fish.” 
Then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked. He is wonderful and strange 
and who knows how old he is, he thought. Never have I had such a strong fish nor one 
who acted so strangely. Perhaps he is too wise to jump. He could ruin me by jumping or 
by a wild rush. But perhaps he has been hooked many times before and he knows 
that this is how he should make his fight. He cannot know that it is only one man against 
him, nor that it is an old man. But what a great fish he is and what will he bring in the 
market if the flesh is good. He took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his 
fight has no panic in it. I wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as I am? 
He remembered the time he had hooked one of a pair of marlin. The male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish, the female, made a wild, 
panic-stricken, despairing fight that soon exhausted her, and all the time the male had 
stayed with her, crossing the line and circling with her on the surface. He had stayed so 
close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which was sharp as a 
scythe and almost of that size and shape. When the old man had gaffed her and clubbed 
her, holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and dubbing her across the top of her 
head until her colour turned to a colour almost like the backing of mirrors, and then, with 
the boy’s aid, hoisted her aboard, the male fish had stayed by the side of the boat. Then, 
while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon, the male fish 
jumped high into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down 
deep, his lavender wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and all his wide 
lavender stripes showing. He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed. 
That was the saddest thing I ever saw with them, the old man thought. The boy was 
sad too and we begged her pardon and butchered her promptly. 
“I wish the boy was here,” he said aloud and settled himself against the rounded 
planks of the bow and felt the strength of the great fish through the line he held across his 
shoulders moving steadily toward whatever he had chosen. 
When once, through my treachery, it had been necessary to him to make a choice, 
the old man thought. 
His choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and 
traps and treacheries. My choice was to go there to find him beyond all people. Beyond all 
people in the world. Now we are joined together and have been since noon. And no one to 
help either one of us. 
Perhaps I should not have been a fisherman, he thought. But that was the thing that 
I was born for. I must surely remember to eat the tuna after it gets light. 
Some time before daylight something took one of the baits that were behind 
him. He heard the stick break and the line begin to rush out over the gunwale of the skiff. 
In the darkness he loosened his sheath knife and taking all the strain of the fish on his 
left shoulder he leaned back and cut the line against the wood of the gunwale. Then he 
cut the other line closest to him and in the dark made the loose ends of the reserve coils 
fast. He worked skillfully with the one hand and put his foot on the coils to hold them as 
he drew his knots tight. Now he had six reserve coils of line. There were two from each 
bait he had severed and the two from the bait the fish had taken and they were all 
connected. 
After it is light, he thought, I will work back to the forty-fathom bait and cut it away 
too and link up the reserve coils. I will have lost two hundred fathoms of good Catalan 
cardel and the hooks and leaders. That can be replaced. But who replaces this fish if I 
hook some fish and it cuts him off? 
I don’t know what that fish was that took the bait just now. It could have been a 
marlin or a broadbill or a shark. I never felt him. I had to get rid of him too fast. 
Aloud he said, “I wish I had the boy.” 
But you haven’t got the boy, he thought. You have only yourself and you had 
better work back to the last line now, in the dark or not in the dark, and cut it away and 
hook up the two reserve coils. 
So he did it. It was difficult in the dark and once the fish made a surge that pulled 
him down on his face and made a cut below his eye. The blood ran down his cheek a little 
way. But it coagulated and dried before it reached his chin and he worked his way back to 
the bow and rested against the wood. He adjusted the sack and carefully worked the line 
so that it came across a new part of his shoulders and, holding it anchored with his 
shoulders, he carefully felt the pull of the fish and then felt with his hand the progress of 
the skiff through the water. 
I wonder what he made that lurch for, he thought. The wire must have slipped on the 
great hill of his back. Certainly his back cannot feel as badly as mine does. But he cannot 
pull this skiff forever, no matter how great he is. Now everything is cleared away that 
might make trouble and I have a big reserve of line; all that a man can ask. 
“Fish,” he said softly, aloud, “I’ll stay with you until I am dead.” 
He’ll stay with me too, I suppose, the old man thought and he waited for it to be 
light. It was cold now in the time before daylight and he pushed against the wood to be 
warm. I can do it as long as he can, he thought. And in the first light the line extended out 
and down into the water. The boat moved steadily and when the first edge of the sun rose 
it was on the old man’s right shoulder. 
“He’s headed north,” the old man said. The current will have set us far to the 
eastward, he thought. I wish he would turn with the current. That would show that he 
was tiring. 
When the sun had risen further the old man realized that the fish was not tiring. 
There was only one favorable sign. The slant of the line showed he was swimming at a 
lesser depth. That did not necessarily mean that he would jump. But he might. 
“God let him jump,” the old man said. “I have enough line to handle him.” 
Maybe if I can increase the tension just a little it will hurt him and he will jump, he 
thought. Now that it is daylight let him jump so that he’ll fill the sacks along his backbone 
with air and then he cannot go deep to die. 
He tried to increase the tension, but the line had been taut up to the very edge of 
the breaking point since he had hooked the fish and he felt the harshness as he leaned 
back to pull and knew he could put no more strain on it. I must not jerk it ever, he 
thought. Each jerk widens the cut the hook makes and then when he does jump he might 
throw it. Anyway I feel better with the sun and for once I do not have to look into it. 
There was yellow weed on the line but the old man knew that only made an added 
drag and he was pleased. It was the yellow Gulf weed that had made so much 
phosphorescence in the night. 
“Fish,” he said, “I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you dead before 
this day ends.”
Let us hope so, he thought. 
A small bird came toward the skiff from the north. He was a warbler and flying very 
low over 
the water. The old man could see that he was very tired. The bird made the stern of 
the boat and rested there. Then he flew around the old man’s head and rested on the line 
where he was more comfortable. “How old are you?” the old man asked the bird. “Is this 
your first trip?”
The bird looked at him when he spoke. He was too tired even to examine the 
line and he teetered on it as his delicate feet gripped it 
