“You’d think I was shoving bamboo splinters under your nails,” Alice muttered to 
herself as she followed me in. 
I paid no attention to her. I was in my happy place. 
In my happy place, the whole wedding mess was over and done. Behind me. 
Already repressed and forgotten. 
We were alone, just Edward and me. The setting was fuzzy and constantly in 
flux—it morphed from misty forest to cloud-covered city to arctic night—because 
Edward was keeping the location of our honeymoon a secret to surprise me. But I 
wasn’t especially concerned about the where part. 
Edward and I were together, and I’d fulfilled my side of our compromise 
perfectly. I’d married him. That was the big one. But I’d also accepted all his 
outrageous gifts and was registered, however futilely, to attend Dartmouth 
College in the fall. Now it was his turn. 
Before he turned me into a vampire—his big compromise—he had one other 
stipulation to make good on. 
Edward had an obsessive sort of concern over the human things that I would be 
giving up, the experiences he didn’t want me to miss. Most of them—like the 
prom, for example—seemed silly to me. There was only one human experience I 
worried about missing. Of course it would be the one he wished I would forget 
completely. 
Here was the thing, though. I knew a little about what I was going to be like when 
I wasn’t human anymore. I’d seen newborn vampires firsthand, and I’d heard all 
my family-to-be’s stories about those wild early days. For several years, my 
biggest personality trait was going to be thirsty. It would take some time before I 
could be me again. And even when I was in control of myself, I would never feel 
exactly the way I felt now. 
Human… and passionately in love. 
I wanted the complete experience before I traded in my warm, breakable, 
pheromone-riddled body for something beautiful, strong… and unknown. I 
wanted a real honeymoon with Edward. And, despite the danger he feared this 
would put me in, he’d agreed to try. 
I was only vaguely aware of Alice and the slip and slide of satin over my skin. I 
didn’t care, for the moment, that the whole town was talking about me. I didn’t 
think about the spectacle I would have to star in much too soon. I didn’t worry 
about tripping on my train or giggling at the wrong moment or being too young 
or the staring audience or even the empty seat where my best friend should be. 
“I miss you already.” 
“I don’t need to leave. I can stay. . . .” 
“Mmm.” 
It was quiet for a long moment, just the thud of my heart hammering, the broken 
rhythm of our ragged breathing, and the whisper of our lips moving in 
synchronization. 
Sometimes it was so easy to forget that I was kissing a vampire. Not because he 
seemed ordinary or human—I could never for a second forget that I was holding 
someone more angel than man in my arms—but because he made it seem like 
nothing at all to have his lips against my lips, my face, my throat. He claimed he 
was long past the temptation my blood used to be for him, that the idea of losing 
me had cured him of any desire for it. But I knew the smell of my blood still 
caused him pain—still burned his throat like he was inhaling flames. 
I opened my eyes and found his open, too, staring at my face. It made no sense 
when he looked at me that way. Like I was the prize rather than the outrageously 
lucky winner. 
Our gazes locked for a moment; his golden eyes were so deep that I imagined I 
could see all the way into his soul. It seemed silly that this fact—the existence of 
his soul—had ever been in question, even if he was a vampire. He had the most 
beautiful soul, more beautiful than his brilliant mind or his incomparable face or 
his glorious body. 
He looked back at me as if he could see my soul, too, and as if he liked what he 
saw. 
He couldn’t see into my mind, though, the way he saw into everyone else’s. Who 
knew why—some strange glitch in my brain that made it immune to all the 
extraordinary and frightening things some immortals could do. (Only my mind 
was immune; my body was still subject to vampires with abilities that worked in 
ways other than Edward’s.) But I was seriously grateful to whatever malfunction 
it was that kept my thoughts a secret. It was just too embarrassing to consider the 
alternative. 
I pulled his face to mine again. 
“Definitely staying,” he murmured a moment later. 
“No, no. It’s your bachelor party. You have to go.”
“I don’t know. It’s too hard to concentrate when you’re with me like this. I—I 
can’t think straight. I won’t be able to control myself. You’ll get hurt.” 
“I’ll be fine.” 
“Bella . . .” 
“Shh!” I pressed my lips to his to stop his panic attack. I’d heard it before. He 
wasn’t getting out of this deal. Not after insisting I marry him first. 
He kissed me back for a moment, but I could tell he wasn’t as into it as before. 
Worrying, always worrying. How different it would be when he didn’t need to 
worry about me anymore. What would he do with all his free time? He’d have to 
get a new hobby. 
“How are your feet?” he asked. 
Knowing he didn’t mean that literally, I answered, “Toasty warm.” 
“Really? No second thoughts? It’s not too late to change your mind.” 
“Are you trying to ditch me?” 
He chuckled. “Just making sure. I don’t want you to do anything you’re not sure 
about.” 
“I’m sure about you. The rest I can live through.” 
He hesitated, and I wondered if I’d put my foot in my mouth again. 
“Can you?” he asked quietly. “I don’t mean the wedding—which I am positive you 
will survive despite your qualms—but afterward… what about Renée, what about 
Charlie?” 
I sighed. “I’ll miss them.” Worse, that they would miss me, but I didn’t want to 
give him any fuel. 
“Angela and Ben and Jessica and Mike.” 
“I’ll miss my friends, too.” I smiled in the darkness. “Especially Mike. Oh, Mike! 
How will I go on?” 
He growled. 
I laughed but then was serious. “Edward, we’ve been through this and through 
this. I know it will be hard, but this is what I want. I want you, and I want you 
forever. One lifetime is simply not enough for me.”
“Frozen forever at eighteen,” he whispered. 
“Every woman’s dream come true,” I teased. 
“Never changing… never moving forward.” 
“What does that mean?” 
He answered slowly. “Do you remember when we told Charlie we were getting 
married? And he thought you were… pregnant?” 
“And he thought about shooting you,” I guessed with a laugh. “Admit it—for one 
second, he honestly considered it.” 
He didn’t answer. 
“What, Edward?” 
“I just wish… well, I wish that he’d been right.” 
“Gah,” I gasped. 
“More that there was some way he could have been. That we had that kind of 
potential. I hate taking that away from you, too.” 
It took me a minute. “I know what I’m doing.” 
“How could you know that, Bella? Look at my mother, look at my sister. It’s not 
as easy a sacrifice as you imagine.” 
“Esme and Rosalie get by just fine. If it’s a problem later, we can do what Esme 
did—we’ll adopt.” 
He sighed, and then his voice was fierce. “It’s not right! I don’t want you to have 
to make sacrifices for me. I want to give you things, not take things away from 
you. I don’t want to steal your future. If I were human—” 
I put my hand over his lips. “You are my future. Now stop. No moping, or I’m 
calling your brothers to come and get you. Maybe you need a bachelor party.” 
“I’m sorry. I am moping, aren’t I? Must be the nerves.” 
“Are your feet cold?” 
“Not in that sense. I’ve been waiting a century to marry you, Miss Swan. The 
wedding ceremony is the one thing I can’t wait—” He broke off mid-thought. “Oh, 
for the love of all that’s holy!” 
I sat up awkwardly, still tangled in my blanket. “Jasper? What do vampires do for 
bachelor parties? You’re not taking him to a strip club, are you?” 
“Don’t tell her anything!” Emmett growled from below. There was another thud, 
and Edward laughed quietly. 
“Relax,” Jasper told me—and I did. “We Cullens have our own version. Just a few 
mountain lions, a couple of grizzly bears. Pretty much an ordinary night out.” 
I wondered if I would ever be able to sound so cavalier about the “vegetarian” 
vampire diet. 
“Thanks, Jasper.” 
He winked and dropped from sight. 
It was completely silent outside. Charlie’s muffled snores droned through the 
walls. 
I lay back against my pillow, sleepy now. I stared at the walls of my little room, 
bleached pale in the moonlight, from under heavy lids. 
My last night in my room. My last night as Isabella Swan. Tomorrow night, I 
would be Bella Cullen. Though the whole marriage ordeal was a thorn in my side, 
I had to admit that I liked the sound of that. 
I let my mind wander idly for a moment, expecting sleep to take me. But, after a 
few minutes, I found myself more alert, anxiety creeping back into my stomach, 
twisting it into uncomfortable positions. The bed seemed too soft, too warm 
without Edward in it. Jasper was far away, and all the peaceful, relaxed feelings 
were gone with him. 
It was going to be a very long day tomorrow. 
I was aware that most of my fears were stupid—I just had to get over myself. 
Attention was an inevitable part of life. I couldn’t always blend in with the 
scenery. However, I did have a few specific worries that were completely valid. 
First there was the wedding dress’s train. Alice clearly had let her artistic sense 
overpower practicalities on that one. Maneuvering the Cullens’ staircase in heels 
and a train sounded impossible. I should have practiced. 
Then there was the guest list. 
Tanya’s family, the Denali clan, would be arriving sometime before the ceremony. 
Keeping the secret meant a lot of things—living inconspicuously like the Cullens, 
moving on before humans could suspect they weren’t aging. Or keeping clear of 
humans altogether—except at mealtime—the way nomads like James and 
Victoria had lived; the way Jasper’s friends, Peter and Charlotte, still lived. It 
meant keeping control of whatever new vampires you created, like Jasper had 
done when he’d lived with Maria. Like Victoria had failed to do with her 
newborns. 
And it meant not creating some things in the first place, because some creations 
were uncontrollable. 
“I don’t know Tanya’s mother’s name,” Carlisle had admitted, his golden eyes, 
almost the exact shade of his fair hair, sad with remembering Tanya’s pain. “They 
never speak of her if they can avoid it, never think of her willingly. 
“The woman who created Tanya, Kate, and Irina—who loved them, I believe—
lived many years before I was born, during a time of plague in our world, the 
plague of the immortal children. 
“What they were thinking, those ancient ones, I can’t begin to understand. They 
created vampires out of humans who were barely more than infants.” 
I’d had to swallow back the bile that rose in my throat as I’d pictured what he was 
describing. 
“They were very beautiful,” Carlisle had explained quickly, seeing my reaction. 
“So endearing, so enchanting, you can’t imagine. You had but to be near them to 
love them; it was an automatic thing. 
“However, they could not be taught. They were frozen at whatever level of 
development they’d achieved before being bitten. Adorable two-year-olds with 
dimples and lisps that could

