I walked slowly through the light rain, remembering the night we’d told him. . . . 
As the sound of Charlie’s cruiser announced his return, the ring suddenly 
weighed a hundred pounds on my finger. I wanted to shove my left hand in a 
pocket, or maybe sit on it, but Edward’s cool, firm grasp kept it front and center. 
“Stop fidgeting, Bella. Please try to remember that you’re not confessing to a 
murder here.” 
“Easy for you to say.”
I listened to the ominous sound of my father’s boots clomping up the sidewalk. 
The key rattled in the already open door. The sound reminded me of that part of 
the horror movie when the victim realizes she’s forgotten to lock her deadbolt. 
“Calm down, Bella,” Edward whispered, listening to the acceleration of my heart. 
The door slammed against the wall, and I flinched like I’d been Tasered. 
“Hey, Charlie,” Edward called, entirely relaxed. 
“No!” I protested under my breath. 
“What?” Edward whispered back. 
“Wait till he hangs his gun up!” 
Edward chuckled and ran his free hand through his tousled bronze hair. 
Charlie came around the corner, still in his uniform, still armed, and tried not to 
make a face when he spied us sitting together on the loveseat. Lately, he’d been 
putting forth a lot of effort to like Edward more. Of course, this revelation was 
sure to end that effort immediately. 
“Hey, kids. What’s up?” 
“We’d like to talk to you,” Edward said, so serene. “We have some good news.” 
Charlie’s expression went from strained friendliness to black suspicion in a 
second. 
“Good news?” Charlie growled, looking straight at me. 
“Have a seat, Dad.” 
He raised one eyebrow, stared at me for five seconds, then stomped to the 
recliner and sat down on the very edge, his back ramrod straight. 
“Don’t get worked up, Dad,” I said after a moment of loaded silence. 
“Everything’s okay.” 
Edward grimaced, and I knew it was in objection to the word okay. He probably 
would have used something more like wonderful or perfect or glorious. 
“Sure it is, Bella, sure it is. If everything is so great, then why are you sweating 
bullets?” 
“I’m not sweating,” I lied.
I leaned away from his fierce scowl, cringing into Edward, and instinctively wiped 
the back of my right hand across my forehead to remove the evidence. 
“You’re pregnant!” Charlie exploded. “You’re pregnant, aren’t you?” 
Though the question was clearly meant for me, he was glaring at Edward now, 
and I could have sworn I saw his hand twitch toward the gun. 
“No! Of course I’m not!” I wanted to elbow Edward in the ribs, but I knew that 
move would only give me a bruise. I’d told Edward that people would 
immediately jump to this conclusion! What other possible reason would sane 
people have for getting married at eighteen? (His answer then had made me roll 
my eyes. Love. Right.) 
Charlie’s glower lightened a shade. It was usually pretty clear on my face when I 
was telling the truth, and he believed me now. “Oh. Sorry.” 
“Apology accepted.” 
There was a long pause. After a moment, I realized everyone was waiting for me 
to say something. I looked up at Edward, panic-stricken. There was no way I was 
going to get the words out. 
He smiled at me and then squared his shoulders and turned to my father. 
“Charlie, I realize that I’ve gone about this out of order. Traditionally, I should 
have asked you first. I mean no disrespect, but since Bella has already said yes 
and I don’t want to diminish her choice in the matter, instead of asking you for 
her hand, I’m asking you for your blessing. We’re getting married, Charlie. I love 
her more than anything in the world, more than my own life, and—by some 
miracle—she loves me that way, too. Will you give us your blessing?” 
He sounded so sure, so calm. For just an instant, listening to the absolute 
confidence in his voice, I experienced a rare moment of insight. I could see, 
fleetingly, the way the world looked to him. For the length of one heartbeat, this 
news made perfect sense. 
And then I caught sight of the expression on Charlie’s face, his eyes now locked 
on the ring. 
I held my breath while his skin changed colors—fair to red, red to purple, purple 
to blue. I started to get up—I’m not sure what I planned to do; maybe use the 
Heimlich maneuver to make sure he wasn’t choking—but Edward squeezed my 
hand and murmured “Give him a minute” so low that only I could hear. 
The silence was much longer this time. Then, gradually, shade by shade, Charlie’s 
color returned to normal. His lips pursed, and his eyebrows furrowed; I recognized his “deep in thought” expression. He studied the two of us for a long 
moment, and I felt Edward relax at my side. 
“Guess I’m not that surprised,” Charlie grumbled. “Knew I’d have to deal with 
something like this soon enough.” 
I exhaled. 
“You sure about this?” Charlie demanded, glaring at me. 
“I’m one hundred percent sure about Edward,” I told him without missing a beat. 
“Getting married, though? What’s the rush?” He eyed me suspiciously again. 
The rush was due to the fact that I was getting closer to nineteen every stinking 
day, while Edward stayed frozen in all his seventeen-year-old perfection, as he 
had for over ninety years. Not that this fact necessitated marriage in my book, 
but the wedding was required due to the delicate and tangled compromise 
Edward and I had made to finally get to this point, the brink of my 
transformation from mortal to immortal. 
These weren’t things I could explain to Charlie. 
“We’re going away to Dartmouth together in the fall, Charlie,” Edward reminded 
him. “I’d like to do that, well, the right way. It’s how I was raised.” He shrugged. 
He wasn’t exaggerating; they’d been big on old-fashioned morals during World 
War I. 
Charlie’s mouth twisted to the side. Looking for an angle to argue from. But what 
could he say? I’d prefer you live in sin first? He was a dad; his hands were tied. 
“Knew this was coming,” he muttered to himself, frowning. Then, suddenly, his 
face went perfectly smooth and blank. 
“Dad?” I asked anxiously. I glanced at Edward, but I couldn’t read his face, either, 
as he watched Charlie. 
“Ha!” Charlie exploded. I jumped in my seat. “Ha, ha, ha!” 
I stared incredulously as Charlie doubled over in laughter; his whole body shook 
with it. 
I looked at Edward for a translation, but Edward had his lips pressed tightly 
together, like he was trying to hold back laughter himself. “Okay, fine,” Charlie choked out. “Get married.” Another roll of laughter shook 
through him. “But . . .” 
“But what?” I demanded. 
“But you have to tell your mom! I’m not saying one word to Renée! That’s all 
yours!” He busted into loud guffaws. 
I paused with my hand on the doorknob, smiling. Sure, at the time, Charlie’s 
words had terrified me. The ultimate doom: telling Renée. Early marriage was 
higher up on her blacklist than boiling live puppies. 
Who could have foreseen her response? Not me. Certainly not Charlie. Maybe 
Alice, but I hadn’t thought to ask her. 
“Well, Bella,” Renée had said after I’d choked and stuttered out the impossible 
words: Mom, I’m marrying Edward. “I’m a little miffed that you waited so long 
to tell me. Plane tickets only get more expensive. Oooh,” she’d fretted. “Do you 
think Phil’s cast will be off by then? It will spoil the pictures if he’s not in a tux—” 
“Back up a second, Mom.” I’d gasped. “What do you mean, waited so long? I just 
got en-en . . .”—I’d been unable to force out the word engaged—“things settled, 
you know, today.” 
“Today? Really? That is a surprise. I assumed . . .” 
“What did you assume? When did you assume?” 
“Well, when you came to visit me in April, it looked like things were pretty much 
sewn up, if you know what I mean. You’re not very hard to read, sweetie. But I 
didn’t say anything because I knew it wouldn’t do any good. You’re exactly like 
Charlie.” She’d sighed, resigned. “Once you make up your mind, there is no 
reasoning with you. Of course, exactly like Charlie, you stick by your decisions, 
too.” 
And then she’d said the last thing that I’d ever expected to hear from my mother. 
“You’re not making my mistakes, Bella. You sound like you’re scared silly, and 
I’m guessing it’s because you’re afraid of me.” She’d giggled. “Of what I’m going 
to think. And I know I’ve said a lot of things about marriage and stupidity—and 
I’m not taking them back—but you need to realize that those things specifically 
applied to me. You’re a completely different person than I am. You make your 
own kinds of mistakes, and I’m sure you’ll have your share of regrets in life. But 
commitment was never your problem, sweetie. You have a better chance of 
making this work than most forty-year-olds I know.” Renée had laughed again. 
“My little middle-aged child. Luckily, you seem to have found another old soul.” 
“Okay, fine,” Charlie choked out. “Get married.” Another roll of laughter shook 
through him. “But . . .” 
“But what?” I demanded. 
“But you have to tell your mom! I’m not saying one word to Renée! That’s all 
yours!” He busted into loud guffaws. 
I paused with my hand on the doorknob, smiling. Sure, at the time, Charlie’s 
words had terrified me. The ultimate doom: telling Renée. Early marriage was 
higher up on her blacklist than boiling live puppies. 
Who could have foreseen her response? Not me. Certainly not Charlie. Maybe 
Alice, but I hadn’t thought to ask her. 
“Well, Bella,” Renée had said after I’d choked and stuttered out the impossible 
words: Mom, I’m marrying Edward. “I’m a little miffed that you waited so long 
to tell me. Plane tickets only get more expensive. Oooh,” she’d fretted. “Do you 
think Phil’s cast will be off by then? It will spoil the pictures if he’s not in a tux—” 
“Back up a second, Mom.” I’d gasped. “What do you mean, waited so long? I just 
got en-en . . .”—I’d been unable to force out the word engaged—“things settled, 
you know, today.” 
“Today? Really? That is a surprise. I assumed . . .” 
“What did you assume? When did you assume?” 
“Well, when you came to visit me in April, it looked like things were pretty much 
sewn up, if you know what I mean. You’re not very hard to read, sweetie. But I 
didn’t say anything because I knew it wouldn’t do any good. You’re exactly like 
Charlie.” She’d sighed, resigned. “Once you make up your mind, there is no 
reasoning with you. Of course, exactly like Charlie, you stick by your decisions, 
too.” 
And then she’d said the last thing that I’d ever expected to hear from my mother. 
“You’re not making my mistakes, Bella. You sound like you’re scared silly, and 
I’m guessing it’s because you’re afraid of me.” She’d giggled. “Of what I’m going 
to think. And I know I’ve said a lot of things about marriage and stupidity—and 
I’m not taking them back—but you need to realize that those things specifically 
applied to me. You’re a completely different person than I am. You make your 
own kinds of mistakes, and I’m sure you’ll have your share of regrets in life. But 
commitment was never your problem, sweetie. You have a better chance of 
making this work than most forty-year-olds I know.” Renée had laughed again. 
“My little middle-aged child. Luckily, you seem to have found another old soul.” 
Alice? 
“Sorry, Charlie,” Alice’s trilling voice responded. “How’s that?” 
“I’m bleeding on it.” 
“You’re fine. Didn’t break the skin—trust me.” 
“What’s going on?” I demanded, hesitating in the doorway. 
“Thirty seconds, please, Bella,” Alice told 
 

