The cool air feels like heaven.
 The kitchen is to my left. I can see the gleam of granite counters.
 I pull the canvas bag from my shoulder and start with the refrigerator. There is a moment of anxiety as
the light comes on when the door opens, but I find the button and hold it down with my toe. My eyes are
blind. I don’t have time to let them adjust. I go by feel.
 Milk, cheese slices, leftovers in a plastic bowl. I hope it’s the chicken-and-rice thing I watched him
cooking for dinner. We’ll eat this tonight.
 Juice, a bag of apples. Baby carrots. These will stay good till morning.
 I hurry to the pantry. I need things that will keep longer.
 I can see better as I gather as much as I can carry. Mmm, chocolate chip cookies. I’m dying to open the
bag right now, but I grit my teeth and ignore the twist of my empty stomach.
 The bag gets heavy too quickly. This will last us only a week, even if we’re careful with it. And I don’t
feel like being careful; I feel like gorging. I shove granola bars into my pockets.
 One more thing. I hurry to the sink and refill my canteen. Then I put my head under the flow and gulp
straight from the stream. The water makes odd noises when it hits my hollow stomach.
 I start to feel panicked now that my job is done. I want to be out of here. Civilization is deadly.
 I watch the floor on my way out, worried about tripping with my heavy bag, which is why I don’t see the
silhouetted black figure on the patio until my hand is on the door.
 I hear his mumbled oath at the same time that a stupid squeak of fear escapes my mouth. I spin to sprint
for the front door, hoping the locks are not latched, or at least not difficult.
 I don’t even get two steps before rough, hard hands grab my shoulders and wrench me back against his
body. Too big, too strong to be a woman. The bass voice proves me right.
 “One sound and you die,” he threatens gruffly. I am shocked to feel a thin, sharp edge pushing into the
skin under my jaw.
 I don’t understand. I shouldn’t be given a choice. Who is this monster? I’ve never heard of one who
would break rules. I answer the only way I can.
 “Do it,” I spit through my teeth. “Just do it. I don’t want to be a filthy parasite!”
 I wait for the knife, and my heart is aching. Each beat has a name. Jamie, Jamie, Jamie. What will happen to you now?
 “Clever,” the man mutters, and it doesn’t sound like he’s speaking to me. “Must be a Seeker. And that
means a trap. How did they know?” The steel disappears from my throat, only to be replaced by a hand
as hard as iron.
 I can barely breathe under his grip.
 “Where are the rest of them?” he demands, squeezing.
 “It’s just me!” I rasp. I can’t lead him to Jamie. What will Jamie do when I don’t come back? Jamie is
hungry!
 I throw my elbow into his gut—and this really hurts. His stomach muscles are as iron hard as the hand.
Which is very strange. Muscles like that are the product of hard living or obsession, and the parasites
have neither.
 He doesn’t even suck in a breath at my blow. Desperate, I jab my heel into his instep. This catches him
off guard, and he wobbles. I wrench away, but he grabs hold of my bag, yanking me back into his body.
His hand clamps down on my throat again.
 “Feisty for a peace-loving body snatcher, aren’t you?”
 His words are nonsensical. I thought the aliens were all the same. I guess they have their nut jobs, too,
after all.
 I twist and claw, trying to break his hold. My nails catch his arm, but this just makes him tighten his hold
on my throat.
 “I will kill you, you worthless body thief. I’m not bluffing.”
 “Do it, then!”
 Suddenly he gasps, and I wonder if any of my flailing limbs have made contact. I don’t feel any new
bruises.
 He lets go of my arm and grabs my hair. This must be it. He’s going to cut my throat. I brace for the
slice of the knife.
 But the hand on my throat eases up, and then his fingers are fumbling on the back of my neck, rough and
warm on my skin.
 “Impossible,” he breathes.
 Something hits the floor with a thud. He’s dropped the knife? I try to think of a way to get it. Maybe if I
fall. The hand on my neck isn’t tight enough to keep me from yanking free. I think I heard where the
blade landed.
 He spins me around suddenly. There is a click, and light blinds my left eye. I gasp and automatically try
to twist away from it. His hand tightens in my hair. The light flickers to my right eye.
“I can’t believe it,” he whispers. “You’re still human.”
 His hands grab my face from both sides, and before I can pull free, his lips come down hard on mine.
 I’m frozen for half a second. No one has ever kissed me in my life. Not a real kiss. Just my parents’
pecks on the cheek or forehead, so many years ago. This is something I thought I would never feel. I’m
not sure exactly what it feels like, though. There’s too much panic, too much terror, too much adrenaline.
 I jerk my knee up in a sharp thrust.
 He chokes out a wheezing sound, and I’m free. Instead of running for the front of the house again like he
expects, I duck under his arm and leap through the open door. I think I can outrun him, even with my
load. I’ve got a head start, and he’s still making pained noises. I know where I’m going—I won’t leave a
path he can see in the dark. I never dropped the food, and that’s good. I think the granola bars are a
loss, though.
 “Wait!” he yells.
 Shut up, I think, but I don’t yell back.
 He’s running after me. I can hear his voice getting closer. “I’m not one of them!”
 Sure. I keep my eyes on the sand and sprint. My dad used to say I ran like a cheetah. I was the fastest
on my track team, state champion, back before the end of the world.
 “Listen to me!” He’s still yelling at full volume. “Look! I’ll prove it. Just stop and look at me!”
 Not likely. I pivot off the wash and flit through the mesquites.
 “I didn’t think there was anyone left! Please, I need to talk to you!”
 His voice surprises me—it is too close.
 “I’m sorry I kissed you! That was stupid! I’ve just been alone so long!”
 “Shut up!” I don’t say it loudly, but I know he hears. He’s getting even closer. I’ve never been outrun
before. I push my legs harder.
 There’s a low grunt to his breathing as he speeds up, too.
 Something big flies into my back, and I go down. I taste dirt in my mouth, and I’m pinned by something
so heavy I can hardly breathe.
 “Wait. A. Minute,” he huffs.
 He shifts his weight and rolls me over. He straddles my chest, trapping my arms under his legs. He is
squishing my food. I growl and try to squirm out from under him.
 “Look, look, look!” he says. He pulls a small cylinder from his hip pocket and twists the top. A beam of
light shoots out the end.
 He turns the flashlight on his face.
 The light makes his skin yellow. It shows prominent cheekbones beside a long thin nose and a sharply
squared-off jaw. His lips are stretched into a grin, but I can see that they are full, for a man. His
eyebrows and lashes are bleached out from sun.
 But that’s not what he is showing me.
 His eyes, clear liquid sienna in the illumination, shine with no more than human reflection. He bounces the
light between left and right.
 “See? See? I’m just like you.”
 “Let me see your neck.” Suspicion is thick in my voice. I don’t let myself believe that this is more than a
trick. I don’t understand the point of the charade, but I’m sure there is one. There is no hope anymore.
 His lips twist. “Well… That won’t exactly help anything. Aren’t the eyes enough? You know I’m not
one of them.”
 “Why won’t you show me your neck?”
 “Because I have a scar there,” he admits.
 I try to squirm out from under him again, and his hand pins my shoulder.
 “It’s self-inflicted,” he explains. “I think I did a pretty good job, though it hurt like hell. I don’t have all
that pretty hair to cover my neck. The scar helps me blend in.”
 “Get off me.”
 He hesitates, then gets to his feet in one easy move, not needing to use his hands. He holds one out,
palm up, to me.
 “Please don’t run away. And, um, I’d rather you didn’t kick me again, either.”
 I don’t move. I know he can catch me if I try to run.
 “Who are you?” I whisper.
 He smiles wide. “My name is Jared Howe. I haven’t spoken to another human being in more than two
years, so I’m sure I must seem… a little crazy to you. Please, forgive that and tell me your name,
anyway.”
 “Melanie,” I whisper.
 “Melanie,” he repeats. “I can’t tell you how delighted I am to meet you.”
 I grip my bag tightly, keeping my eyes on him. He reaches his hand down toward me slowly.
 And I take it.
  It isn’t until I see my hand curl voluntarily around his that I realize I believe him.
 He helps me to my feet and doesn’t release my hand when I’m up.
 “What now?” I ask guardedly.
 “Well, we can’t stay here for long. Will you come back with me to the house? I left my bag. You beat
me to the fridge.”
 I shake my head.
 He seems to realize how brittle I am, how close to breaking.
 “Will you wait for me here, then?” he asks in a gentle voice. “I’ll be very quick. Let me get us some
more food.”
 “Us?”
 “Do you really think I’m going to let you disappear? I’ll follow you even if you tell me not to.”
 I don’t want to disappear from him.
 “I…” How can I not trust another human completely? We’re family—both part of the brotherhood of
extinction. “I don’t have time. I have so far to go and… Jamie is waiting.”
 “You’re not alone,” he realizes. His expression shows uncertainty for the first time.
 “My brother. He’s just nine, and he’s so frightened when I’m away. It will take me half the night to get
back to him. He won’t know if I’ve been caught. He’s so hungry. ” As if to make my point, my stomach
growls loudly.
 Jared’s smile is back, brighter than before. “Will it help if I give you a ride?”
 “A ride?” I echo.
 “I’ll make you a deal. You wait here while I gather more food, and I’ll take you anywhere you want to
go in my jeep. It’s faster than running—even faster than you running.”
 “You have a car?”
 “Of course. Do you think I walked out here?”
 I think of the six hours it took me to walk here, and my forehead furrows.
 “We’ll be back to your brother in no time,” he promises. “Don’t move from this spot, okay?”
 I nod.
 “And eat something, please. I don’t want your stomach to give us away.” He grins, 

