Volturi forces; I’d only met them once, but in that brief encounter, it seemed to 
me that Aro, with his powerful mind-reading gift—one touch, and he knew every 
thought a mind had ever held—was the true leader. 
“The Volturi studied the immortal children, at home in Volterra and all around 
the world. Caius decided the young ones were incapable of protecting our secret. 
And so they had to be destroyed. 
“I told you they were loveable. Well, covens fought to the last man—were utterly 
decimated—to protect them. The carnage was not as widespread as the southern 
wars on this continent, but more devastating in its own way. Long-established 
covens, old traditions, friends… Much was lost. In the end, the practice was 
completely eliminated. The immortal children became unmentionable, a taboo. 
“When I lived with the Volturi, I met two immortal children, so I know firsthand 
the appeal they had. Aro studied the little ones for many years after the 
catastrophe they’d caused was over. You know his inquisitive disposition; he was 
hopeful that they could be tamed. But in the end, the decision was unanimous: 
the immortal children could not be allowed to exist.” 
I’d all but forgotten the Denali sisters’ mother when the story returned to her. 
“It is unclear precisely what happened with Tanya’s mother,” Carlisle had said. 
“Tanya, Kate, and Irina were entirely oblivious until the day the Volturi came for 
them, their mother and her illegal creation already their prisoners. It was 
ignorance that saved Tanya’s and her sisters’ lives. Aro touched them and saw 
their total innocence, so they were not punished with their mother. 
“None of them had ever seen the boy before, or dreamed of his existence, until 
the day they watched him burn in their mother’s arms. I can only guess that their 
mother had kept her secret to protect them from this exact outcome. But why had 
she created him in the first place? Who was he, and what had he meant to her 
that would cause her to cross this most uncrossable of lines? Tanya and the 
others never received an answer to any of these questions. But they could not 
doubt their mother’s guilt, and I don’t think they’ve ever truly forgiven her. 
“Even with Aro’s perfect assurance that Tanya, Kate, and Irina were innocent, 
Caius wanted them to burn. Guilty by association. They were lucky that Aro felt 
like being merciful that day. Tanya and her sisters were pardoned, but left with 
unhealing hearts and a very healthy respect for the law....” 
I’m not sure where exactly the memory turned into a dream. One moment it 
seemed that I was listening to Carlisle in my memory, looking at his face, and 
then a moment later I was looking at a gray, barren field and smelling the thick 
scent of burning incense in the air. I was not alone there.
The huddle of figures in the center of the field, all shrouded in ashy cloaks, should 
have terrified me—they could only be Volturi, and I was, against what they’d 
decreed at our last meeting, still human. But I knew, as I sometimes did in 
dreams, that I was invisible to them. 
Scattered all around me were smoking heaps. I recognized the sweetness in the 
air and did not examine the mounds too closely. I had no desire to see the faces of 
the vampires they had executed, half afraid that I might recognize someone in the 
smoldering pyres. 
The Volturi soldiers stood in a circle around something or someone, and I heard 
their whispery voices raised in agitation. I edged closer to the cloaks, compelled 
by the dream to see whatever thing or person they were examining with such 
intensity. Creeping carefully between two of the tall hissing shrouds, I finally saw 
the object of their debate, raised up on a little hillock above them. 
He was beautiful, adorable, just as Carlisle had described. The boy was a toddler 
still, maybe two years of age. Light brown curls framed his cherubic face with its 
round cheeks and full lips. And he was trembling, his eyes closed as if he was too 
frightened to watch death coming closer every second. 
I was struck with such a powerful need to save the lovely, terrified child that the 
Volturi, despite all their devastating menace, no longer mattered to me. I shoved 
past them, not caring if they realized my presence. Breaking free of them 
altogether, I sprinted toward the boy. 
Only to stagger to a halt as I got a clear view of the hillock that he sat upon. It was 
not earth and rock, but a pile of human bodies, drained and lifeless. Too late not 
to see these faces. I knew them all—Angela, Ben, Jessica, Mike.… And directly 
beneath the adorable boy were the bodies of my father and my mother. 
The child opened his bright, bloodred eyes.
My own eyes flew open. 
I lay shivering and gasping in my warm bed for several minutes, trying to break 
free of the dream. The sky outside my window turned gray and then pale pink 
while I waited for my heart to slow. 
When I was fully back to the reality of my messy, familiar room, I was a little 
annoyed with myself. What a dream to have the night before my wedding! That’s 
what I got for obsessing over disturbing stories in the middle of the night. 
Eager to shake off the nightmare, I got dressed and headed down to the kitchen 
long before I needed to. First I cleaned the already tidy rooms, and then when 
Charlie was up I made him pancakes. I was much too keyed up to have any 
interest in eating breakfast myself—I sat bouncing in my seat while he ate. 
“You’re picking up Mr. Weber at three o’clock,” I reminded him. 
“I don’t have that much to do today besides bring the minister, Bells. I’m not 
likely to forget my only job.” Charlie had taken the entire day off for the wedding, 
and he was definitely at loose ends. Now and then, his eyes flickered furtively to 
the closet under the stairs, where he kept his fishing gear. 
“That’s not your only job. You also have to be dressed and presentable.” 
He scowled into his cereal bowl and muttered the words “monkey suit” under his 
breath. 
There was a brisk tapping on the front door. 
“You think you have it bad,” I said, grimacing as I rose. “Alice will be working on 
me all day long.” 
Charlie nodded thoughtfully, conceding that he did have the lesser ordeal. I 
ducked in to kiss the top of his head as I passed—he blushed and harrumphed—
and then continued on to get the door for my best girlfriend and soon-to-be 
sister. 
Alice’s short black hair was not in its usual spiky do—it was smoothed into sleek 
pin curls around her pixie face, which wore a contrastingly businesslike 
expression. She dragged me from the house with barely a “Hey, Charlie” called 
over her shoulder. 
Alice appraised me as I got into her Porsche. 
“Oh, hell, look at your eyes!” She tsked in reproach. “What did you do? Stay up all 
night?” 
“Almost.” 
She glowered. “I’ve only allotted so much time to make you stunning, Bella—you 
might have taken better care of my raw material.” 
“No one expects me to be stunning. I think the bigger problem is that I might fall 
asleep during the ceremony and not be able to say ‘I do’ at the right part, and 
then Edward will make his escape.” 
She laughed. “I’ll throw my bouquet at you when it gets close.” 
“Thanks.” 
“At least you’ll have plenty of time to sleep on the plane tomorrow.” 
I raised one eyebrow. Tomorrow, I mused. If we were heading out tonight after 
the reception, and we would still be on a plane tomorrow… well, we weren’t going 
to Boise, Idaho. Edward hadn’t dropped a single hint. I wasn’t too stressed about 
the mystery, but it was strange not knowing where I would be sleeping tomorrow 
night. Or hopefully not sleeping... 
Alice realized that she’d given something away, and she frowned. 
“You’re all packed and ready,” she said to distract me. 
It worked. “Alice, I wish you would let me pack my own things!” 
“It would have given too much away.” 
“And denied you an opportunity to shop.” 
“You’ll be my sister officially in ten short hours… it’s about time to get over this 
aversion to new clothes.” 
I glowered groggily out the windshield until we were almost to the house. 
“Is he back yet?” I asked. 
“Don’t worry, he’ll be there before the music starts. But you don’t get to see him, 
no matter when he gets back. We’re doing this the traditional way.” 
I snorted. “Traditional!” 
“Okay, aside from the bride and groom.” 
“You know he’s already peeked.” 
“Oh no—that’s why I’m the only one who’s seen you in the dress. I’ve been very 
careful to not think about it when he’s around.” 
“Well,” I said as we turned into the drive, “I see you got to reuse your graduation 
decorations.” Three miles of drive were once again wrapped in hundreds of 
thousands of twinkle lights. This time, she’d added white satin bows. 
“Waste not, want not. Enjoy this, because you don’t get to see the inside 
decorations until it’s time.” She pulled into the cavernous garage north of the 
main house; Emmett’s big Jeep was still gone. 
“Since when is the bride not allowed to see the decorations?” I protested. 
“Since she put me in charge. I want you to get the full impact coming down the 
stairs.” 
She clapped her hand over my eyes before she let me inside the kitchen. I was 
immediately assailed by the scent. 
“What is that?” I wondered as she guided me into the house. 
“Is it too much?” Alice’s voice was abruptly worried. “You’re the first human in 
here; I hope I got it right.” 
“It smells wonderful!” I assured her—almost intoxicating, but not at all 
overwhelming, the balance of the different fragrances was subtle and flawless. 
“Orange blossoms… lilac… and something else—am I right?” 
“Very good, Bella. You only missed the freesia and the roses.” 
She didn’t uncover my eyes until we were in her oversized bathroom. I stared at 
the long counter, covered in all the paraphernalia of a beauty salon, and began to 
feel my sleepless night. 
“Is this really necessary? I’m going to look plain next to him no matter what.” 
She pushed me down into a low pink chair. “No one will dare to call you plain 
when I’m through with you.” 
“Only because they’re afraid you’ll suck their blood,” I muttered. I leaned back in 
the chair and closed my eyes, hoping I’d be able to nap through it. I did drift in 
and out a little bit while she masked, buffed, and polished every surface of my 
body. 
It was after lunchtime when Rosalie glided past the bathroom door in a shimmery 
silver gown with her golden hair piled up in a soft crown on top of her head. She 
was so beautiful it made me want to cry. What was even the point of dressing up 
with Rosalie around? 
“They’re back,” Rosalie said, and immediately my childish fit of despair passed. 
Edward was home. 
“Keep him out of here!” 
“He won’t cross you today,” Rosalie reassured her. “He values his life too much. 
Esme’s got them finishing things up out back. Do you want some help? I could do 
her hair.” 
My jaw fell open. I floundered around in my head, trying to remember how to 
close it. 
I had never been Rosalie’s favorite person in the world. Then, making things even 
more strained between us, she was personally offended by the choice I was 
making now. Though she had her impossible beauty, her loving family, and her 
soul mate in Emmett, she would have traded it all to be
