I stared because their faces, so different, so similar, were all devastatingly, inhumanly beautiful. They
were faces you never expected to see except perhaps on the airbrushed pages of a fashion magazine. Or
painted by an old master as the face of an angel. It was hard to decide who was the most beautiful —
maybe the perfect blond girl, or the bronze-haired boy.
They were all looking away — away from each other, away from the other students, away from anything
in particular as far as I could tell. As I watched, the small girl rose with her tray — unopened soda,
unbitten apple — and walked away with a quick, graceful lope that belonged on a runway. I watched,
amazed at her lithe dancer's step, till she dumped her tray and glided through the back door, faster than I
would have thought possible. My eyes darted back to the others, who sat unchanging.
"Who are they?" I asked the girl from my Spanish class, whose name I'd forgotten.
As she looked up to see who I meant — though already knowing, probably, from my tone — suddenly
he looked at her, the thinner one, the boyish one, the youngest, perhaps. He looked at my neighbor for
just a fraction of a second, and then his dark eyes flickered to mine.
He looked away quickly, more quickly than I could, though in a flush of embarrassment I dropped myeyes at once. In that brief flash of a glance, his face held nothing of interest — it was as if she had called
his name, and he'd looked up in involuntary response, already having decided not to answer.
My neighbor giggled in embarrassment, looking at the table like I did.
"That's Edward and Emmett Cullen, and Rosalie and Jasper Hale. The one who left was Alice Cullen;
they all live together with Dr. Cullen and his wife." She said this under her breath.
I glanced sideways at the beautiful boy, who was looking at his tray now, picking a bagel to pieces with
long, pale fingers. His mouth was moving very quickly, his perfect lips barely opening. The other three still
looked away, and yet I felt he was speaking quietly to them.
Strange, unpopular names, I thought. The kinds of names grandparents had. But maybe that was in vogue
here — small town names? I finally remembered that my neighbor was called Jessica, a perfectly
common name. There were two girls named Jessica in my History class back home.
"They are… very nice-looking." I struggled with the conspicuous understatement.
"Yes!" Jessica agreed with another giggle. "They're all together though — Emmett and Rosalie, and
Jasper and Alice, I mean. And they live together." Her voice held all the shock and condemnation of the
small town, I thought critically. But, if I was being honest, I had to admit that even in Phoenix, it would
cause gossip.
"Which ones are the Cullens?" I asked. "They don't look related…"
"Oh, they're not. Dr. Cullen is really young, in his twenties or early thirties. They're all adopted. The
Hales are brother and sister, twins — the blondes — and they're foster children."
"They look a little old for foster children."
"They are now, Jasper and Rosalie are both eighteen, but they've been with Mrs. Cullen since they were
eight. She's their aunt or something like that."
"That's really kind of nice — for them to take care of all those kids like that, when they're so young and
everything."
"I guess so," Jessica admitted reluctantly, and I got the impression that she didn't like the doctor and his
wife for some reason. With the glances she was throwing at their adopted children, I would presume the
reason was jealousy. "I think that Mrs. Cullen can't have any kids, though," she added, as if that lessened
their kindness.
Throughout all this conversation, my eyes flickered again and again to the table where the strange family
sat. They continued to look at the walls and not eat.
"Have they always lived in Forks?" I asked. Surely I would have noticed them on one of my summers
here.
"No," she said in a voice that implied it should be obvious, even to a new arrival like me. "They just
moved down two years ago from somewhere in Alaska."
I felt a surge of pity, and relief. Pity because, as beautiful as they were, they were outsiders, clearly not
accepted. Relief that I wasn't the only newcomer here, and certainly not the most interesting by any
standard.As I examined them, the youngest, one of the Cullens, looked up and met my gaze, this time with evident
curiosity in his expression. As I looked swiftly away, it seemed to me that his glance held some kind of
unmet expectation.
"Which one is the boy with the reddish brown hair?" I asked. I peeked at him from the corner of my eye,
and he was still staring at me, but not gawking like the other students had today — he had a slightly
frustrated expression. I looked down again.
"That's Edward. He's gorgeous, of course, but don't waste your time. He doesn't date. Apparently none
of the girls here are good-looking enough for him." She sniffed, a clear case of sour grapes. I wondered
when he'd turned her down.
I bit my lip to hide my smile. Then I glanced at him again. His face was turned away, but I thought his
cheek appeared lifted, as if he were smiling, too.
After a few more minutes, the four of them left the table together. They all were noticeably graceful —
even the big, brawny one. It was unsettling to watch. The one named Edward didn't look at me again.
I sat at the table with Jessica and her friends longer than I would have if I'd been sitting alone. I was
anxious not to be late for class on my first day. One of my new acquaintances, who considerately
reminded me that her name was Angela, had Biology II with me the next hour. We walked to class
together in silence. She was shy, too.
When we entered the classroom, Angela went to sit at a black-topped lab table exactly like the ones I
was used to. She already had a neighbor. In fact, all the tables were filled but one. Next to the center
aisle, I recognized Edward Cullen by his unusual hair, sitting next to that single open seat.
As I walked down the aisle to introduce myself to the teacher and get my slip signed, I was watching him
surreptitiously. Just as I passed, he suddenly went rigid in his seat. He stared at me again, meeting my
eyes with the strangest expression on his face — it was hostile, furious. I looked away quickly, shocked,
going red again. I stumbled over a book in the walkway and had to catch myself on the edge of a table.
The girl sitting there giggled.
I'd noticed that his eyes were black — coal black.
Mr. Banner signed my slip and handed me a book with no nonsense about introductions. I could tell we
were going to get along. Of course, he had no choice but to send me to the one open seat in the middle
of the room. I kept my eyes down as I went to sit by him, bewildered by the antagonistic stare he'd given
me.
I didn't look up as I set my book on the table and took my seat, but I saw his posture change from the
corner of my eye. He was leaning away from me, sitting on the extreme edge of his chair and averting his
face like he smelled something bad. Inconspicuously, I sniffed my hair. It smelled like strawberries, the
scent of my favorite shampoo. It seemed an innocent enough odor. I let my hair fall over my right
shoulder, making a dark curtain between us, and tried to pay attention to the teacher.
Unfortunately the lecture was on cellular anatomy, something I'd already studied. I took notes carefully
anyway, always looking down.
I couldn't stop myself from peeking occasionally through the screen of my hair at the strange boy next to
me. During the whole class, he never relaxed his stiff position on the edge of his chair, sitting as far from
me as possible. I could see his hand on his left leg was clenched into a fist, tendons standing out under his
pale skin. This, too, he never relaxed. He had the long sleeves of his white shirt pushed up to his elbows,and his forearm was surprisingly hard and muscular beneath his light skin. He wasn't nearly as slight as
he'd looked next to his burly brother.
The class seemed to drag on longer than the others. Was it because the day was finally coming to a
close, or because I was waiting for his tight fist to loosen? It never did; he continued to sit so still it
looked like he wasn't breathing. What was wrong with him? Was this his normal behavior? I questioned
my judgment on Jessica's bitterness at lunch today. Maybe she was not as resentful as I'd thought.
It couldn't have anything to do with me. He didn't know me from Eve.
I peeked up at him one more time, and regretted it. He was glaring down at me again, his black eyes full
of revulsion. As I flinched away from him, shrinking against my chair, the phrase if looks could kill
suddenly ran through my mind.
At that moment, the bell rang loudly, making me jump, and Edward Cullen was out of his seat. Fluidly he
rose — he was much taller than I'd thought — his back to me, and he was out the door before anyone
else was out of their seat.
I sat frozen in my seat, staring blankly after him. He was so mean. It wasn't fair. I began gathering up my
things slowly, trying to block the anger that filled me, for fear my eyes would tear up. For some reason,
my temper was hardwired to my tear ducts. I usually cried when I was angry, a humiliating tendency.
"Aren't you Isabella Swan?" a male voice asked.
I looked up to see a cute, baby-faced boy, his pale blond hair carefully gelled into orderly spikes, smiling
at me in a friendly way. He obviously didn't think I smelled bad.
"Bella," I corrected him, with a smile.
"I'm Mike."
"Hi, Mike."
"Do you need any help finding your next class?"
"I'm headed to the gym, actually. I think I can find it."
"That's my next class, too." He seemed thrilled, though it wasn't that big of a coincidence in a school this
small.
We walked to class together; he was a chatterer — he supplied most of the conversation, which made it
easy for me. He'd lived in California till he was ten, so he knew how I felt about the sun. It turned out he
was in my English class also. He was the nicest person I'd met today.
But as we were entering the gym, he asked, "So, did you stab Edward Cullen with a pencil or what? I've
never seen him act like that."
I cringed. So I wasn't the only one who had noticed. And, apparently, that wasn't Edward Cullen's usual
behavior. I decided to play dumb.
"Was that the boy I sat next to in Biology?" I asked artlessly.
"Yes," he said. "He looked like he was in pain or something."
"I don't know," I responded. "I never spoke to him.""He's a weird guy." Mike lingered by me instead of heading to the dressing room. "If I were lucky enough
to sit by you, I would have talked to you."
I smiled at him before walking through the girls' locker room door. He was friendly and clearly admiring.
But it wasn't enough to ease my irritation.
The Gym
