My mother drove me to the airport with the windows rolled down. It was seventy-five degrees in
Phoenix, the sky a perfect, cloudless blue. I was wearing my favorite shirt — sleeveless, white eyelet
lace; I was wearing it as a farewell gesture. My carry-on item was a parka.
In the Olympic Peninsula of northwest Washington State, a small town named Forks exists under a
near-constant cover of clouds. It rains on this inconsequential town more than any other place in the
United States of America. It was from this town and its gloomy, omnipresent shade that my mother
escaped with me when I was only a few months old. It was in this town that I'd been compelled to spend
a month every summer until I was fourteen. That was the year I finally put my foot down; these past three
summers, my dad, Charlie, vacationed with me in California for two weeks instead.
It was to Forks that I now exiled myself— an action that I took with great horror. I detested Forks.
I loved Phoenix. I loved the sun and the blistering heat. I loved the vigorous, sprawling city.
"Bella," my mom said to me — the last of a thousand times — before I got on the plane. "You don't have
to do this."
My mom looks like me, except with short hair and laugh lines. I felt a spasm of panic as I stared at her
wide, childlike eyes. How could I leave my loving, erratic, harebrained mother to fend for herself? Of
course she had Phil now, so the bills would probably get paid, there would be food in the refrigerator,
gas in her car, and someone to call when she got lost, but still…
"I want to go," I lied. I'd always been a bad liar, but I'd been saying this lie so frequently lately that it
sounded almost convincing now.
"Tell Charlie I said hi."
"I will."
"I'll see you soon," she insisted. "You can come home whenever you want — I'll come right back as soon
as you need me."
But I could see the sacrifice in her eyes behind the promise.
"Don't worry about me," I urged. "It'll be great. I love you, Mom."She hugged me tightly for a minute, and then I got on the plane, and she was gone.
It's a four-hour flight from Phoenix to Seattle, another hour in a small plane up to Port Angeles, and then
an hour drive back down to Forks. Flying doesn't bother me; the hour in the car with Charlie, though, I
was a little worried about.
Charlie had really been fairly nice about the whole thing. He seemed genuinely pleased that I was coming
to live with him for the first time with any degree of permanence. He'd already gotten me registered for
high school and was going to help me get a car.
But it was sure to be awkward with Charlie. Neither of us was what anyone would call verbose, and I
didn't know what there was to say regardless. I knew he was more than a little confused by my decision
— like my mother before me, I hadn't made a secret of my distaste for Forks.
When I landed in Port Angeles, it was raining. I didn't see it as an omen — just unavoidable. I'd already
said my goodbyes to the sun.
Charlie was waiting for me with the cruiser. This I was expecting, too. Charlie is Police Chief Swan to the
good people of Forks. My primary motivation behind buying a car, despite the scarcity of my funds, was
that I refused to be driven around town in a car with red and blue lights on top. Nothing slows down
traffic like a cop.
Charlie gave me an awkward, one-armed hug when I stumbled my way off the plane.
"It's good to see you, Bells," he said, smiling as he automatically caught and steadied me. "You haven't
changed much. How's Renée?"
"Mom's fine. It's good to see you, too, Dad." I wasn't allowed to call him Charlie to his face.
I had only a few bags. Most of my Arizona clothes were too permeable for Washington. My mom and I
had pooled our resources to supplement my winter wardrobe, but it was still scanty. It all fit easily into
the trunk of the cruiser.
"I found a good car for you, really cheap," he announced when we were strapped in.
"What kind of car?" I was suspicious of the way he said "good car for you" as opposed to just "good
car."
"Well, it's a truck actually, a Chevy."
"Where did you find it?"
"Do you remember Billy Black down at La Push?" La Push is the tiny Indian reservation on the coast.
"No."
"He used to go fishing with us during the summer," Charlie prompted.
That would explain why I didn't remember him. I do a good job of blocking painful, unnecessary things
from my memory.
"He's in a wheelchair now," Charlie continued when I didn't respond, "so he can't drive anymore, and he
offered to sell me his truck cheap."
"What year is it?" I could see from his change of expression that this was the question he was hoping Iwouldn't ask.
"Well, Billy's done a lot of work on the engine — it's only a few years old, really."
I hoped he didn't think so little of me as to believe I would give up that easily. "When did he buy it?"
"He bought it in 1984, I think."
"Did he buy it new?"
"Well, no. I think it was new in the early sixties — or late fifties at the earliest," he admitted sheepishly.
"Ch — Dad, I don't really know anything about cars. I wouldn't be able to fix it if anything went wrong,
and I couldn't afford a mechanic…"
"Really, Bella, the thing runs great. They don't build them like that anymore."
The thing, I thought to myself… it had possibilities — as a nickname, at the very least.
"How cheap is cheap?" After all, that was the part I couldn't compromise on.
"Well, honey, I kind of already bought it for you. As a homecoming gift." Charlie peeked sideways at me
with a hopeful expression.
Wow. Free.
"You didn't need to do that, Dad. I was going to buy myself a car."
"I don't mind. I want you to be happy here." He was looking ahead at the road when he said this. Charlie
wasn't comfortable with expressing his emotions out loud. I inherited that from him. So I was looking
straight ahead as I responded.
"That's really nice, Dad. Thanks. I really appreciate it." No need to add that my being happy in Forks is
an impossibility. He didn't need to suffer along with me. And I never looked a free truck in the mouth —
or engine.
"Well, now, you're welcome," he mumbled, embarrassed by my thanks.
We exchanged a few more comments on the weather, which was wet, and that was pretty much it for
Conversation. We stared out the windows in silence.
It was beautiful, of course; I couldn't deny that. Everything was green: the trees, their trunks covered with
moss, their branches hanging with a canopy of it, the ground covered with ferns. Even the air filtered
down greenly through the leaves.
It was too green — an alien planet.
Eventually we made it to Charlie's. He still lived in the small, two-bedroom house that he'd bought with
my mother in the early days of their marriage. Those were the only kind of days their marriage had — the
early ones. There, parked on the street in front of the house that never changed, was my new — well,
new to me — truck. It was a faded red color, with big, rounded fenders and a bulbous cab. To my
intense surprise, I loved it. I didn't know if it would run, but I could see myself in it. Plus, it was one of
those solid iron affairs that never gets damaged — the kind you see at the scene of an accident, paint
unscratched, surrounded by the pieces of the foreign car it had destroyed.
Wow, Dad, I love it! Thanks!" Now my horrific day tomorrow would be just that much less dreadful. I
wouldn't be faced with the choice of either walking two miles in the rain to school or accepting a ride in
the Chief's cruiser.
"I'm glad you like it," Charlie said gruffly, embarrassed again.
It took only one trip to get all my stuff upstairs. I got the west bedroom that faced out over the front yard.
The room was familiar; it had been belonged to me since I was born. The wooden floor, the light blue
walls, the peaked ceiling, the yellowed lace curtains around the window — these were all a part of my
childhood. The only changes Charlie had ever made were switching the crib for a bed and adding a desk
as I grew. The desk now held a secondhand computer, with the phone line for the modem stapled along
the floor to the nearest phone jack. This was a stipulation from my mother, so that we could stay in touch
easily. The rocking chair from my baby days was still in the corner.
There was only one small bathroom at the top of the stairs, which I would have to share with Charlie. I
was trying not to dwell too much on that fact.
One of the best things about Charlie is he doesn't hover. He left me alone to unpack and get settled, a
feat that would have been altogether impossible for my mother. It was nice to be alone, not to have to
smile and look pleased; a relief to stare dejectedly out the window at the sheeting rain and let just a few
tears escape. I wasn't in the mood to go on a real crying jag. I would save that for bedtime, when I
would have to think about the coming morning.
Forks High School had a frightening total of only three hundred and fifty-seven — now fifty-eight —
students; there were more than seven hundred people in my junior class alone back home. All of the kids
here had grown up together — their grandparents had been toddlers together.
I would be the new girl from the big city, a curiosity, a freak.
Maybe, if I looked like a girl from Phoenix should, I could work this to my advantage. But physically, I'd
never fit in anywhere. I should be tan, sporty, blond — a volleyball player, or a cheerleader, perhaps —
all the things that go with living in the valley of the sun.
Instead, I was ivory-skinned, without even the excuse of blue eyes or red hair, despite the constant
sunshine. I had always been slender, but soft somehow, obviously not an athlete; I didn't have the
necessary hand-eye coordination to play sports without humiliating myself — and harming both myself
and anyone else who stood too close.
When I finished putting my clothes in the old pine dresser, I took my bag of bathroom necessities and
went to the communal bathroom to clean myself up after the day of travel. I looked at my face in the
mirror as I brushed through my tangled, damp hair. Maybe it was the light, but already I looked sallower,
unhealthy. My skin could be pretty — it was very clear, almost translucent-looking — but it all depended
on color. I had no color here.
Facing my pallid reflection in the mirror, I was forced to admit that I was lying to myself. It wasn't just
physically that I'd never fit in. And if I couldn't find a niche in a school with three thousand people, what
were my chances here?
I didn't relate well to people my age. Maybe the truth was that I didn't relate well