The Healer’s name was Fords Deep Waters.
 Because he was a soul, by nature he was all things good: compassionate, patient, honest, virtuous, and
full of love. Anxiety was an unusual emotion for Fords Deep Waters.
 Irritation was even rarer. However, because Fords Deep Waters lived inside a human body, irritation
was sometimes inescapable.
 As the whispers of the Healing students buzzed in the far corner of the operating room, his lips pressed
together into a tight line. The expression felt out of place on a mouth more often given to smiling.
 Darren, his regular assistant, saw the grimace and patted his shoulder.
 “They’re just curious, Fords,” he said quietly.
 “An insertion is hardly an interesting or challenging procedure. Any soul on the street could perform it in
an emergency. There’s nothing for them to learn by observing today.” Fords was surprised to hear the
sharp edge marring his normally soothing voice.
 “They’ve never seen a grown human before,” Darren said.
 Fords raised one eyebrow. “Are they blind to each other’s faces? Do they not have mirrors?”
 “You know what I mean—a wild human. Still soulless. One of the insurgents.”
 Fords looked at the girl’s unconscious body, laid out facedown on the operating table. Pity swelled in his
heart as he remembered the condition her poor, broken body had been in when the Seekers had brought
her to the Healing facility. Such pain she’d endured.…
 Of course she was perfect now—completely healed. Fords had seen to that.
 “She looks the same as any of us,” Fords murmured to Darren. “We all have human faces. And when
she wakes up, she will be one of us, too.”
 “It’s just exciting for them, that’s all.”
  “The soul we implant today deserves more respect than to have her host body gawked at this way.
She’ll already have far too much to deal with as she acclimates. It’s not fair to put her through this.” By
this, he did not mean the gawking. Fords heard the sharp edge return to his voice.
 Darren patted him again. “It will be fine. The Seeker needs information and —”
 At the wordSeeker, Fords gave Darren a look that could only be described as a glare. Darren blinked in
shock.
 “I’m sorry,” Fords apologized at once. “I didn’t mean to react so negatively. It’s just that I fear for this
soul.”
 His eyes moved to the cryotank on its stand beside the table. The light was a steady, dull red, indicating
that it was occupied and in hibernation mode.
 “This soul was specially picked for the assignment,” Darren said soothingly. “She is exceptional among
our kind—braver than most. Her lives speak for themselves. I think she would volunteer, if it were
possible to ask her.”
 “Who among us would not volunteer if asked to do something for the greater good? But is that really the
case here? Is the greater good served by this? The question is not her willingness, but what it is right to
ask any soul to bear.”
 The Healing students were discussing the hibernating soul as well. Fords could hear the whispers clearly;
their voices were rising now, getting louder with their excitement.
 “She’s lived on six planets.”
 “I heard seven.”
 “I heard she’s never lived two terms as the same host species.”
 “Is that possible?”
 “She’s been almost everything. A Flower, a Bear, a Spider —”
 “A See Weed, a Bat —”
 “Even a Dragon!”
 “I don’t believe it—not seven planets.”
 “At least seven. She started on the Origin.”
 “Really? The Origin?”
 “Quiet, please!” Fords interrupted. “If you cannot observe professionally and silently, then I will have to
ask you to remove yourselves.”
 Abashed, the six students fell silent and edged away from one another.
 “Let’s get on with this, Darren.”
 Everything was prepared. The appropriate medicines were laid out beside the human girl. Her long dark
hair was secured beneath a surgical cap, exposing her slender neck. Deeply sedated, she breathed slowly
in and out. Her sun-browned skin had barely a mark to show for her… accident.
 “Begin thaw sequence now, please, Darren.”
 The gray-haired assistant was already waiting beside the cryotank, his hand resting on the dial. He
flipped the safety back and spun down on the dial. The red light atop the small gray cylinder began to
pulse, flashing faster as the seconds passed, changing color.
 Fords concentrated on the unconscious body; he edged the scalpel through the skin at the base of the
subject’s skull with small, precise movements, and then sprayed on the medication that stilled the excess
flow of blood before he widened the fissure. Fords delved delicately beneath the neck muscles, careful
not to injure them, exposing the pale bones at the top of the spinal column.
 “The soul is ready, Fords,” Darren informed him.
 “So am I. Bring her.”
 Fords felt Darren at his elbow and knew without looking that his assistant would be prepared, his hand
stretched out and waiting; they had worked together for many years now. Fords held the gap open.
 “Send her home,” he whispered.
 Darren’s hand moved into view, the silver gleam of an awaking soul in his cupped palm.
 Fords never saw an exposed soul without being struck by the beauty of it.
 The soul shone in the brilliant lights of the operating room, brighter than the reflective silver instrument in
his hand. Like a living ribbon, she twisted and rippled, stretching, happy to be free of the cryotank. Her
thin, feathery attachments, nearly a thousand of them, billowed softly like pale silver hair. Though they
were all lovely, this one seemed particularly graceful to Fords Deep Waters.
 He was not alone in his reaction. He heard Darren’s soft sigh, heard the admiring murmurs of the
students.
 Gently, Darren placed the small glistening creature inside the opening Fords had made in the human’s
neck. The soul slid smoothly into the offered space, weaving herself into the alien anatomy. Fords
admired the skill with which she possessed her new home. Her attachments wound tightly into place
around the nerve centers, some elongating and reaching deeper to where he couldn’t see, under and up
into the brain, the optic nerves, the ear canals. She was very quick, very firm in her movements. Soon,
only one small segment of her glistening body was visible.
 “Well done,” he whispered to her, knowing that she could not hear him. The human girl was the one with
ears, and she still slept soundly.
 It was a routine matter to finish the job. He cleaned and healed the wound, applied the salve that sealed
the incision closed behind the soul, and then brushed the scar-softening powder across the line left on her
neck.
“Perfect, as usual,” said the assistant, who, for some reason unfathomable to Fords, had never made a
change from his human host’s name, Darren.
 Fords sighed. “I regret this day’s work.”
 “You’re only doing your duty as a Healer.”
 “This is the rare occasion when Healing creates an injury.”
 Darren began to clean up the workstation. He didn’t seem to know how to answer. Fords was filling his
Calling. That was enough for Darren.
 But not enough for Fords Deep Waters, who was a true Healer to the core of his being. He gazed
anxiously at the human female’s body, peaceful in slumber, knowing that this peace would be shattered
as soon as she awoke. All the horror of this young woman’s end would be borne by the innocent soul
he’d just placed inside her.
 As he leaned over the human and whispered in her ear, Fords wished fervently that the soul inside could
hear him now.
 “Good luck, little wanderer, good luck. How I wish you didn’t need it.”
  The language I found myself using was odd, but it made sense. Choppy, boxy, blind, and linear.
Impossibly crippled in comparison to many I’d used, yet still it managed to find fluidity and expression.
Sometimes beauty. My language now. My native tongue.
 With the truest instinct of my kind, I’d bound myself securely into the body’s center of thought, twined
myself inescapably into its every breath and reflex until it was no longer a separate entity. It was me.
 I felt the sedation wearing off and lucidity taking its place. I braced myself for the onslaught of the first
memory, which would really be the last memory—the last moments this body had experienced, the
memory of the end. I had been warned thoroughly of what would happen now. These human emotions
would be stronger, more vital than the feelings of any other species I had been. I had tried to prepare
myself.
 The memory came. And, as I’d been warned, it was not something that could ever be prepared for.
 It seared with sharp color and ringing sound. Cold on her skin, pain gripping her limbs, burning them.
The taste was fiercely metallic in her mouth. And there was the new sense, the fifth sense I’d never had,
that took the particles from the air and transformed them into strange messages and pleasures and
warnings in her brain—scents. They were distracting, confusing to me, but not to her memory. The
memory had no time for the novelties of smell. The memory was only fear.
 Fear locked her in a vise, goading the blunt, clumsy limbs forward but hampering them at the same time.
To flee, to run—it was all she could do.
 I’ve failed.
 The memory that was not mine was so frighteningly strong and clear that it sliced through my
control—overwhelmed the detachment, the knowledge that this was just a memory and not me. Sucked
into the hell that was the last minute of her life, I was she, and we were running.
 It’s so dark. I can’t see. I can’t see the floor. I can’t see my hands stretched out in front of me. I run
blind and try to hear the pursuit I can feel behind me, but the pulse is so loud behind my ears it drowns
everything else out.
 It’s cold. It shouldn’t matter now, but it hurts. I’m so cold.
 The air in her nose was uncomfortable. Bad. A bad smell. For one second, that discomfort pulled me
free of the memory. But it was only a second, and then I was dragged in again, and my eyes filled with
horrified tears.
 I’m lost, we’re lost. It’s over.
 They’re right behind me now, loud and close. There are so many footsteps! I am alone. I’ve failed.
 The Seekers are calling. The sound of their voices twists my stomach. I’m going to be sick.
 “It’s fine, it’s fine,” one lies, trying to calm me, to slow me. Her voice is disturbed by the effort of her
breathing.
 “Be careful!” another shouts in warning.
 “Don’t hurt yourself,” one of them pleads. A deep voice, full of concern.
 Concern!
 Heat shot through my veins, and a violent hatred nearly choked me.
 I had never felt such an emotion as this in all my lives. For another second, my revulsion pulled me away
from the memory. A high, shrill keening pierced my ears and pulsed in my head. The sound scraped
through my airways. There was a weak pain in my throat.
I feel like laughing when I know that I am fast enough. I imagine their hands clutching for me just inches
behind my back. But I am as fast as I need to be. I don’t even pause at the end of the floor. The hole
rises up to meet me midstride.
 The emptiness swallows me. My legs flail, useless. My hands grip the air, claw through it, searching for
anything solid. Cold blows past me like tornado winds.
 I hear the thud before I feel it.… The wind is gone.…
 And then pain is everywhere.… Pain is everything.
 Make it stop.
  When will the pain end? When… ?
 The blackness swallowed up the agony, and I was weak with gratitude that the memory had come to
this most
 to tell them apart, to see the tiny variations in color and shape that were the only markers of the
individual. So much the same, all of them. Noses centered in the middle of the sphere, eyes above and
mouths below, ears around the sides. A collection of senses, all but touch, concentrated in one place.
Skin over bones, hair growing on the crown and in strange furry lines above the eyes. Some had more fur
lower down on the jaw; those were always males. The colors ranged through the brown scale from pale
cream to a deep almost-black. Aside from that, how to know one from the other?
 This face I would have known among millions.
 This face was a hard rectangle, the shape of the bones strong under the skin. In color it was a light
golden brown. The hair was just a few shades darker than the skin, except where flaxen streaks lightened
it, and it covered only the head and the odd fur stripes above the eyes. The circular irises in the white
eyeballs were darker than the hair but, like the hair, flecked with light. There were small lines around the
eyes, and her memories told me the lines were from smiling and squinting into sunlight.
 I knew nothing of what passed for beauty among these strangers, and yet I knew that this face was
beautiful. I wanted to keep looking at it. As soon as I realized this, it disappeared.
 Mine, spoke the alien thought that should not have existed.
 Again, I was frozen, stunned. There should have been no one here but me. And yet this thought was so
strong and so aware!
 Impossible. How was she still here? This was me now.
 Mine, I rebuked her, the power and authority that belonged to me alone flowing through the word.
Everything is mine.
 So why am I talking back to her? I wondered as the voices interrupted my thoughts.
 The voices were soft and close and, though I was only now aware of them, apparently in the middle of a
murmured conversation.
 “I’m afraid it’s too much for her,” one said. The voice was soft but deep, male. “Too much for anyone.
Such violence!” The tone spoke of revulsion.
 “She screamed only once,” said a higher, reedy, female voice, pointing this out with a hint of glee, as if
she were winning an argument.
 “I know,” the man admitted. “She is very strong. Others have had much more trauma, with much less
cause.”
 “I’m sure she’ll be fine, just as I told you.”
 “Maybe you missed your Calling.” There was an edge to the man’s voice. Sarcasm, my memory named
it. “Perhaps you were meant to be a Healer, like me.”
The woman made a sound of amusement. Laughter. “I doubt that. We Seekers prefer a different sort of
diagnosis.”
 My body knew this word, this title: Seeker. It sent a shudder of fear down my spine. A leftover reaction.
Of course, I had no reason to fear Seekers.
“I sometimes wonder if the infection of humanity touches those in your profession,” the man mused, his
voice still sour with annoyance. “Violence is part of your life choice. Does enough of your body’s native
temperament linger to give you enjoyment of the horror?”
 I was surprised at his accusation, at his tone. This discussion was almost like… an argument. Something
my host was familiar with but that I’d never experienced.
 The woman was defensive. “We do not choose violence. We face it when we must. And it’s a good
thing for the rest of you that some of us are strong enough for the unpleasantness. Your peace would be
shattered without our work.”
 “Once upon a time. Your vocation will soon be obsolete, I think.”
 “The error of that statement lies on the bed there.”
 “One human girl, alone and unarmed! Yes, quite a threat to our peace.”
 The woman breathed out heavily. A sigh. “But where did she come from? How did she appear in the
middle of Chicago, a city long since civilized, hundreds of miles from any trace of rebel activity? Did she
manage it alone?”
 She listed the questions without seeming to seek an answer, as if she had already voiced them many
times.
 “That’s your problem, not mine,” the man said. “My job is to help this soul adapt herself to her new host
without unnecessary pain or trauma. And you are here to interfere with my job.”
 Still slowly surfacing, acclimating myself to this new world of senses, I understood only now that I was
the subject of the conversation. I was the soul they spoke of. It was a new connotation to the word, a
word that had meant many other things to my host. On every planet we took a different name.Soul. I
suppose it was an apt description. The unseen force that guides the body.
 “The answers to my questions matter as much as your responsibilities to the soul.”
 “That’s debatable.”
 There was the sound of movement, and her voice was suddenly a whisper. “When will she become
responsive? The sedation must be about to wear off.”
 “When she’s ready. Leave her be. She deserves to handle the situation however she finds most
comfortable. Imagine the shock of her awakening—inside a rebel host injured to the point of death in the
escape attempt! No one should have to endure such trauma in times of peace!” His voice rose with the
increase of emotion.
 “She is strong.” The woman’s tone was reassuring now. “See how well she did with the first memory, the worst memory. Whatever she expected, she handled this.”
 “Why should she have to?” the man muttered, but he didn’t seem to expect an answer.
 The woman answered anyway. “If we’re to get the information we need —”
 “Need being your word. I would choose the term want.”
 “Then someone must take on the unpleasantness,” she continued as if he had not interrupted. “And I
think, from all I know of this one, she would accept the challenge if there had been any way to ask her.
What do you call her?”
 The man didn’t speak for a long moment. The woman waited.
 “Wanderer,” he finally and unwillingly answered.
 “Fitting,” she said. “I don’t have any official statistics, but she has to be one of the very few, if not the
only one, who has wandered so far. Yes, Wanderer will suit her well until she chooses a new name for
herself.”
He said nothing.
 “Of course, she may assume the host’s name.… We found no matches on record for the fingerprints or
retinal scan. I can’t tell you what that name was.”
 “She won’t take the human name,” the man muttered.
 Her response was conciliatory. “Everyone finds comfort their own way.”
 “This Wanderer will need more comfort than most, thanks to your style of Seeking.”
 There were sharp sounds—footsteps, staccato against a hard floor. When she spoke again, the
woman’s voice was across the room from the man.
 “You would have reacted poorly to the early days of this occupation,” she said.
 “Perhaps you react poorly to peace.”
 The woman laughed, but the sound was false—there was no real amusement. My mind seemed well
adapted to inferring the true meanings from tones and inflections.
 “You do not have a clear perception of what my Calling entails. Long hours hunched over files and
maps. Mostly desk work. Not very often the conflict or violence you seem to think it is.”
 “Ten days ago you were armed with killing weapons, running this body down.”
 “The exception, I assure you, not the rule. Do not forget, the weapons that disgust you are turned on our
kind wherever we Seekers have not been vigilant enough. The humans kill us happily whenever they have
the ability to do so. Those whose lives have been touched by the hostility see us as heroes.”
 “You speak as if a war were raging.”
 “To the remains of the human race, one is.”
 These words were strong in my ears. My body reacted to them; I felt my breathing speed, heard the
sound of my heart pumping louder than was usual. Beside the bed I lay on, a machine registered the
increases with a muted beeping. The Healer and the Seeker were too involved in their disagreement to
notice.
 “But one that even they must realize is long lost. They are outnumbered by what? A million to one? I
imagine you would know.”
 “We estimate the odds are quite a bit higher in our favor,” she admitted grudgingly.
 The Healer appeared to be content to let his side of the disagreement rest with that information. It was
quiet for a moment.
 I used the empty time to evaluate my situation. Much was obvious.
 I was in a Healing facility, recovering from an unusually traumatic insertion. I was sure the body that
hosted me had been fully healed before it was given to me. A damaged host would have been disposed
of.
 I considered the conflicting opinions of the Healer and the Seeker. According to the information I had
been given before making the choice to come here, the Healer had the right of it. Hostilities with the few
remaining pockets of humans were all but over. The planet called Earth was as peaceful and serene as it
looked from space, invitingly green and blue, wreathed in its harmless white vapors. As was the way of
the soul, harmony was universal now.
 The verbal dissension between the Healer and the Seeker was out of character. Strangely aggressive for
our kind. It made me wonder. Could they be true, the whispered rumors that had undulated like waves
through the thoughts of the… of the…
 I was distracted, trying to find the name for my last host species. We’d had a name, I knew that. But, no
longer connected to that host, I could not remember the word. We’d used much simpler language than
this, a silent language of thought that connected us all into one great mind. A necessary convenience when
one was rooted forever into the wet black soil.
 I could describe that species in my new human language. We lived on the floor of the great ocean that
covered the entire surface of our world—a world that had a name, too, but that was also gone. We each
had a hundred arms and on each arm a thousand eyes, so that, with our thoughts connected, not one
sight in the vast waters went unseen. There was no need for sound, so there was no way to hear it. We
tasted the waters, and, with our sight, that told us all we needed to know. We tasted the suns, so many
leagues above the water, and turned their taste into the food we needed.
 I could describe us, but I could not name us. I sighed for the lost knowledge, and then returned my
ponderings to what I’d overheard.
 Souls did not, as a rule, speak anything but the truth. Seekers, of course, had the requirements of their
Calling, but between souls there was never reason for a lie. With my last species’ language of thought, it
would have been impossible to lie, even had we wanted to. However, anchored as we were, we told
ourselves stories to alleviate the boredom. Storytelling was the most honored of all talents, for it benefited everyone.
 Sometimes, fact mixed with fiction so thoroughly that, though no lies were told, it was hard to remember
what was strictly true.
 When we thought of the new planet—Earth, so dry, so varied, and filled with such violent, destructive
denizens we could barely imagine them—our horror was sometimes overshadowed by our excitement.
Stories spun themselves quickly around the thrilling new subject. The wars—wars! our kind having to
fight!—were first reported accurately and then embellished and fictionalized. When the stories conflicted
with the official information I sought out, I naturally But there were whispers of this: of human hosts so strong that the souls were forced to abandon them.
Hosts whose minds could not be completely suppressed. Souls who took on the personality of the body,
rather than the other way around. Stories. Wild rumors. Madness.
 But that seemed almost to be the Healer’s accusation.…
 I dismissed the thought. The more likely meaning of his censure was the distaste most of us felt for the
Seeker’s Calling. Who would choose a life of conflict and pursuit? Who would be attracted to the chore
of tracking down unwilling hosts and capturing them? Who would have the stomach to face the violence
of this particular species, the hostile humans who killed so easily, so thoughtlessly? Here, on this planet,
the Seekers had become practically a… militia—my new brain supplied the term for the unfamiliar
concept. Most believed that only the least civilized souls, the least evolved, the lesser among us, would
be drawn to the path of Seeker.
 Still, on Earth the Seekers had gained new status. Never before had an occupation gone so awry. Never
before had it turned into a fierce and bloody battle. Never before had the lives of so many souls been
sacrificed. The Seekers stood as a mighty shield, and the souls of this world were thrice-over indebted to
them: for the safety they had carved out of the mayhem, for the risk of the final death that they faced
willingly every day, and for the new bodies they continued to provide.
 Now that the danger was virtually past, it appeared the gratitude was fading. And, for this Seeker at
least, the change was not a pleasant one.
 It was easy to imagine what her questions for me would be. Though the Healer was trying to buy me
time to adjust to my new body, I knew I would do my best to help the Seeker. Good citizenship was
quintessential to every soul.
 So I took a deep breath to prepare myself. The monitor registered the movement. I knew I was stalling
a bit. I hated to admit it, but I was afraid. To get the information the Seeker needed, I would have to
explore the violent memories that had made me scream in horror. More than that, I was afraid of the
voice I’d heard so loudly in my head. But she was silent now, as was right. She was just a memory, too.
 I should not have been afraid. After all, I was called Wanderer now. And I’d earned the name.
 With another deep breath, I delved into the memories that frightened me, faced them head-on with my
teeth locked together.
 I could skip past the end—it didn’t overwhelm me now. In fast-forward, I ran through the dark again,
wincing, trying not to feel. It was over quickly.
 Once I was through that barrier, it wasn’t hard to float through less-alarming things and places, skimming
for the information I wanted. I saw how she’d come to this cold city, driving by night in a stolen car
chosen for its nondescript appearance. She’d walked through the streets of Chicago in darkness,
shivering beneath her coat.
 She was doing her own seeking. There were others like her here, or so she hoped. One in particular. A
friend… no, family. Not a sister… a cousin.
 The words came slower and slower, and at first I did not understand why. Was this forgotten? Lost in
the trauma of an almost death? Was I still sluggish from unconsciousness? I struggled to think clearly.
This sensation was unfamiliar. Was my body still sedated? I felt alert enough, but my mind labored
unsuccessfully for the answers I wanted.
 I tried another avenue of searching, hoping for clearer responses. What was her goal? She would find…
Sharon—I fished out the name—and they would…
 I hit a wall.
 It was a blank, a nothing. I tried to circle around it, but I couldn’t find the edges of the void. It was as if
the information I sought had been erased.
 As if this brain had been damaged.
 Anger flashed through me, hot and wild. I gasped in surprise at the unexpected reaction. I’d heard of the
emotional instability of these human bodies, but this was beyond my ability to anticipate. In eight full lives,
I’d never had an emotion touch me with such force.
 I felt the blood pulse through my neck, pounding behind my ears. My hands tightened into fists.
 The machines beside me reported the acceleration of my heartbeats. There was a reaction in the room:
the sharp tap of the Seeker’s shoes approached me, mingled with a quieter shuffle that must have been
the Healer.
 “Welcome to Earth, Wanderer,” the female voice said.
  She won’t recognize the new name,” the Healer murmured.
 A new sensation distracted me. Something pleasant, a change in the air as the Seeker stood at my side.
A scent, I realized. Something different than the sterile, odorless room. Perfume, my new mind told me.
Floral, lush…
 “Can you hear me?” the Seeker asked, interrupting my analysis. “Are you aware?”
 “Take your time,” the Healer urged in a softer voice than the one he had used before.
 I did not open my eyes. I didn’t want to be distracted. My mind gave me the words I needed, and the
tone that would convey what I couldn’t say without using many words.
“Have I been placed in a damaged host in order to gain the information you need, Seeker?”
 There was a gasp—surprise and outrage mingled—and something warm touched my skin, covered my
hand.
 “Of course not, Wanderer,” the man said reassuringly. “Even a Seeker would stop at some things.”
 The Seeker gasped again. Hissed, my memory corrected.
 “Then why doesn’t this mind function correctly?”
 There was a pause.
 “The scans were perfect,” the Seeker said. Her words not reassuring but argumentative. Did she mean
to quarrel with me? “The body was entirely healed.”
 “From a suicide attempt that was perilously close to succeeding.” My tone was stiff, still angry. I wasn’t
used to anger. It was hard to contain it.
 “Everything was in perfect order —”
 The Healer cut her off. “What is missing?” he asked. “Clearly, you’ve accessed speech.”
 “Memory. I was trying to find what the Seeker wants.”
 Though there was no sound, there was a change. The atmosphere, which had gone tense at my
accusation, relaxed. I wondered how I knew this. I had a strange sensation that I was somehow receiving
more than my five senses were giving me—almost a feeling that there was another sense, on the fringes,
not quite harnessed. Intuition? That was almost the right word. As if any creature needed more than five
senses.
 The Seeker cleared her throat, but it was the Healer who answered.
 “Ah,” he said. “Don’t make yourself anxious about some partial memory… difficulties. That’s, well, not
to be expected, exactly, but not surprising, considering.”
 “I don’t understand your meaning.”
 “This host was part of the human resistance.” There was a hint of excitement in the Seeker’s voice now.
“Those humans who were aware of us before insertion are more difficult to subdue. This one still resists.”
 There was a moment of silence while they waited for my response.
 Resisting? The host was blocking my access? Again, the heat of my anger surprised me.
 “Am I correctly bound?” I asked, my voice distorted because it came through my teeth.
 “Yes,” the Healer said. “All eight hundred twenty-seven points are latched securely in the optimum
positions.”
This mind used more of my faculties than any host before, leaving me only one hundred eighty-one spare
attachments. Perhaps the numerous bindings were the reason the emotions were so vivid.
 I decided to open my eyes. I felt the need to double-check the Healer’s promises and make sure the
rest of me worked.
 Light. Bright, painful. I closed my eyes again. The last light I had seen had been filtered through a
hundred ocean fathoms. But these eyes had seen brighter and could handle it. I opened them narrowly,
keeping my eyelashes feathered over the breach.
 “Would you like me to turn down the lights?”
 “No, Healer. My eyes will adjust.”
 “Very good,” he said, and I understood that his approval was meant for my casual use of the possessive.
 Both waited quietly while my eyes slowly widened.
 My mind recognized this as an average room in a medical facility. A hospital. The ceiling tiles were white
with darker speckles. The lights were rectangular and the same size as the tiles, replacing them at regular
intervals. The walls were light green—a calming color, but also the color of sickness. A poor choice, in
my quickly formed opinion.
 The people facing me were more interesting than the room. The word doctor sounded in my mind as
soon as my eyes fastened on the Healer. He wore loose-fitting blue green clothes that left his arms bare.
Scrubs. He had hair on his face, a strange color that my memory called red.
 Red! It had been three worlds since I had seen the color or any of its relatives. Even this gingery gold
filled me with nostalgia.
 His face was generically human to me, but the knowledge in my memory applied the word kind.
 An impatient breath pulled my attention to the Seeker.
 She was very small. If she had remained still, it would have taken me longer to notice her there beside
the Healer. She didn’t draw the eye, a darkness in the bright room. She wore black from chin to
wrists—a conservative suit with a silk turtleneck underneath. Her hair was black, too. It grew to her chin
and was pushed back behind her ears. Her skin was darker than the Healer’s. Olive toned.
 The tiny changes in humans’ expressions were so minimal they were very hard to read. My memory
could name the look on this woman’s face, though. The black brows, slanted down over the slightly
bulging eyes, created a familiar design. Not quite anger. Intensity. Irritation.
 “How often does this happen?” I asked, looking at the Healer again.
 “Not often,” the Healer admitted. “We have so few full-grown hosts available anymore. The immature
hosts are entirely pliable. But you indicated that you preferred to begin as an adult.…”
 “Yes.”
 “Most requests are the opposite. The human life span is much shorter than you’re used to.”
 “I’m well versed in all the facts, Healer. Have you dealt with this… resistance before yourself?”
 “Only once, myself.”
 “Tell me the facts of the case.” I paused. “Please,” I added, feeling a lack of courtesy in my command.
 The Healer sighed.
 The Seeker began tapping her fingers against her arm. A sign of impatience. She did not care to wait for
what she wanted.
 “This occurred four years ago,” the Healer began. “The soul involved had requested an adult male host.
The first one to be available was a human who had been living in a pocket of resistance since the early
years of the occupation. The human… knew what would happen when he was caught.”
 “Just as my host did.”
 “Um, yes.” He cleared his throat. “This was only the soul’s second life. He came from Blind World.”
 “Blind World?” I asked, cocking my head to the side reflexively.
 “Oh, sorry, you wouldn’t know our nicknames. This was one of yours, though, was it not?” He pulled a
device from his pocket, a computer, and scanned quickly. “Yes, your seventh planet. In the eighty-first
sector.”
 “Blind World?” I said again, my voice now disapproving.
 “Yes, well, some who have lived there prefer to call it the Singing World.”
 I nodded slowly. I liked that better.
 “And some who’ve never been there call it Planet of the Bats,” the Seeker muttered.
 I turned my eyes to her, feeling them narrow as my mind dredged up the appropriate image of the ugly
flying rodent she referred to.
 “I assume you are one who
 Taking control?” My eyes strained wide. “With the soul unaware? The host took the body back?”
 “Sadly, yes. Kevin was not strong enough to suppress this host.”
 Not strong enough.
 Would they think me weak as well? Was I weak, that I could not force this mind to answer my
questions? Weaker still, because her living thoughts had existed in my head where there should be
nothing but memory? I’d always thought of myself as strong. This idea of weakness made me flinch.
Made me feel shame.
 The Healer continued. “Certain events occurred, and it was decided —”
 “What events?”
 The Healer looked down without answering.
 “What events?” I demanded again. “I believe I have a right to know.”
 The Healer sighed. “You do. Kevin… physically attacked a Healer while not… himself.” He winced.
“He knocked the Healer unconscious with a blow from his fist and then found a scalpel on her person.
We found him insensible. The host had tried to cut the soul out of his body.”
 It took me a moment before I could speak. Even then, my voice was just a breath. “What happened to
them?”
 “Luckily, the host was unable to stay conscious long enough to inflict real damage. Kevin was relocated,
into an immature host this time. The troublesome host was in poor repair, and it was decided there
wasn’t much point in saving him.
 “Kevin is seven human years old now and perfectly normal… aside from the fact that he kept the name
Kevin, that is. His guardians are taking great care that he is heavily exposed to music, and that is coming
along well.…” The last was added as if it were good news—news that could somehow cancel out the
rest.
 “Why?” I cleared my throat so that my voice could gain some volume. “Why have these risks not been
shared?”
 “Actually,” the Seeker broke in, “it is very clearly stated in all recruitment propaganda that assimilating
the remaining adult human hosts is much more challenging than assimilating a child. An immature host is
highly recommended.”
 “The word challenging does not quite cover Kevin’s story,” I whispered.
 “Yes, well, you preferred to ignore the recommendation.” She held up her hands in a peacemaking
gesture when my body tensed, causing the stiff fabric on the narrow bed to crackle softly. “Not that I
blame you. Childhood is extraordinarily tedious. And you are clearly not the average soul. I have every
confidence that this is well within your abilities to handle. This is just another host. I’m sure you will have
full access and control shortly.”
 By this point in my observations of the Seeker, I was surprised that she’d had the patience to wait for
any delay, even my personal acclimatization. I sensed her disappointment in my lack of information, and it
brought back some of the unfamiliar feelings of anger.
 “Did it not occur to you that you could get the answers you seek by being inserted into this body
yourself?” I asked.
 She stiffened. “I’m no skipper.”
 My eyebrows pulled up automatically.
 “Another nickname,” the Healer explained. “For those who do not complete a life term in their host.”
 I nodded in understanding. We’d had a name for it on my other worlds. On no world was it smiled
upon. So I quit quizzing the Seeker and gave her what I could.
 “Her name was Melanie Stryder. She was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She was in Los Angeles
when the occupation became known to her, and she hid in the wilderness for a few years before
finding… Hmmm. Sorry, I’ll try that one again later. The body has seen twenty years. She drove to
Chicago from…” I shook my head. “There were several stages, not all of them alone. The vehicle was
stolen. She was searching for a cousin named Sharon, whom she had reason to hope was still human.
She neither found nor contacted anyone before she was spotted. But…” I struggled, fighting against
another blank wall. “I think… I can’t be sure… I think she left a note… somewhere.”
 “So she expected someone would look for her?” the Seeker asked eagerly.
 “Yes. She will be… missed. If she does not rendezvous with…” I gritted my teeth, truly fighting now.
The wall was black, and I could not tell how thick it was. I battered against it, sweat beading on my
forehead. The Seeker and the Healer were very quiet, allowing me to concentrate.
 I tried thinking of something else—the loud, unfamiliar noises the engine of the car had made, the jittery
rush of adrenaline every time the lights of another vehicle drew near on the road. I already had this, and
nothing fought me. I let the memory carry me along, let it skip over the cold hike through the city under
the sheltering darkness of night, let it wind its way to the building where they’d found me.
 Not me, her. My body shuddered.
 “Don’t overextend —” the Healer began.
 The Seeker shushed him.
 I let my mind dwell on the horror of discovery, the burning hatred of the Seekers that overpowered
almost everything else. The hatred was evil; it was pain. I could hardly bear to feel it. But I let it run its
course, hoping it would distract the resistance, weaken the defenses.
 I watched carefully as she tried to hide and then knew she could not. A note, scratched on a piece of
debris with a broken pencil. Shoved hastily under a door. Not just any door.
 “The pattern is the fifth door along the fifth hall on the fifth floor. Her communication is there.”
 The Seeker had a small phone in her hand; she murmured rapidly into it.
 “The building was supposed to be safe,” I continued. “They knew it was condemned. She doesn’t know
how she was discovered. Did they find Sharon?”
 A chill of horror raised goose bumps on my arms.
 The question was not mine.
 The question wasn’t mine, but it flowed naturally through my lips as if it were. The Seeker did not notice
anything amiss.
 “The cousin? No, they found no other human,” she answered, and my body relaxed in response. “This
host was spotted entering the building. Since the building was known to be condemned, the citizen who
observed her was concerned. He called us, and we watched the building to see if we could catch more
than one, and then moved in when that seemed unlikely. Can you find the rendezvous point?”
 I tried.
 So many memories, all of them so colorful and sharp. I saw a hundred places I’d never been, heard their
names for the first time. A house in Los Angeles, lined with tall fronded trees. A meadow in a forest, with
a tent and a fire, outside Winslow, Arizona. A deserted rocky beach in Mexico. A cave, the entrance
guarded by sheeting rain, somewhere in Oregon. Tents, huts, rude shelters. As time went on, the names
grew less specific. She did not know where she was, nor did she care.
 My name was now Wanderer, yet her memories fit it just as well as my own. Except that my wandering
was by choice. These flashes of memory were always tinged with the fear of the hunted. Not wandering,
but running.
 I tried not to feel pity. Instead, I worked to focus the memories. I didn’t need to see where she’d been,
only where she was going. I sorted through the pictures that tied to the wordChicago, but none seemed
to be anything more than random images. I widened my net. What was outside Chicago? Cold, I thought.
It was cold, and there was some worry about that.
 Where? I pushed, and the wall came back.
 I exhaled in a gust. “Outside the city—in the wilderness… a state park, away from any habitations. It’s
not somewhere she’d been before, but she knew how to get there.”
 “How soon?” the Seeker asked.
 “Soon.” The answer came automatically. “How long have I been here?”
 “We let the host heal for nine days, just to be absolutely sure she was recovered,” the Healer told me.
“Insertion was today, the tenth day.”
 Ten days. My body felt a staggering wave of relief.
 “Too late,” I said. “For the rendezvous point… or even the note.” I could feel the host’s reaction to
this—could feel it much too strongly. The host was almost…smug. I allowed the words she thought to
be spoken, so that I could learn from them. “He won’t be there.”
“He?” The Seeker pounced on the pronoun. “Who?”
 The black wall slammed down with more force than she’d used before. She was the tiniest fraction of a
second too late.
 Again, the face filled my mind. The beautiful face with the golden tan skin and the light-flecked eyes. The
face that stirred a strange, deep pleasure within me while I viewed it so clearly in my mind.
 Though the wall slapped into place with an accompanying sensation of vicious resentment, it was not fast
enough.
 “Jared,” I answered. As quickly as if it had come from me, the thought that was not mine followed the
name through my lips. “Jared is safe.”
 It is too dark to be so hot, or maybe too hot to be so dark. One of the two is out of place.
 I crouch in the darkness behind the weak protection of a scrubby creosote bush, sweating out all the
water left in my body. It’s been fifteen minutes since the car left the garage. No lights have come on. The
arcadia door is open two inches, letting the swamp cooler do its job. I can imagine the feel of the moist,
cool air blowing through the screen. I wish it could reach me here.
 My stomach gurgles, and I clench my abdominal muscles to stifle the sound. It is quiet enough that the
murmur carries.
 I am so hungry.
 There is another need that is stronger—another hungry stomach hidden safely far away in the darkness,
waiting alone in the rough cave that is our temporary home. A cramped place, jagged with volcanic rock.
What will he do if I don’t come back? All the pressure of motherhood with none of the knowledge or
experience. I feel so hideously helpless. Jamie is hungry.
 There are no other houses close to this one. I’ve been watching since the sun was still white hot in the
sky, and I don’t think there is a dog, either.
 I ease up from my crouch, my calves screaming in protest, but keep hunched at the waist, trying to be
smaller than the bush. The way up the wash is smooth sand, a pale pathway in the light of the stars. There
are no sounds of cars on the road.
 I know what they will realize when they return, the monsters who look like a nice couple in their early
fifties. They will know exactly what I am, and the search will begin at once. I need to be far away. I really
hope they are going out for a night on the town. I think it’s Friday. They keep our habits so perfectly, it’s
hard to see any difference. Which is how they won in the first place.
 The fence around the yard is only waist high. I get over easily, noiselessly. The yard is gravel, though,
and I have to walk carefully to keep my weight from shifting it. I make it to the patio slab.
The blinds are open. The starlight is enough to see that the rooms are empty of movement. This couple
goes for a spartan look, and I’m grateful. It makes it harder for someone to hide. Of course, that leaves
no place for me to hide, either, but if it comes to hiding for me, it’s too late anyway.
 I ease the screen door open first, and then the glass door. Both glide silently. I place my feet carefully on
the The cool air feels like heaven.
 The kitchen is to my left. I can see the gleam of granite counters.
 I pull the canvas bag from my shoulder and start with the refrigerator. There is a moment of anxiety as
the light comes on when the door opens, but I find the button and hold it down with my toe. My eyes are
blind. I don’t have time to let them adjust. I go by feel.
 Milk, cheese slices, leftovers in a plastic bowl. I hope it’s the chicken-and-rice thing I watched him
cooking for dinner. We’ll eat this tonight.
 Juice, a bag of apples. Baby carrots. These will stay good till morning.
 I hurry to the pantry. I need things that will keep longer.
 I can see better as I gather as much as I can carry. Mmm, chocolate chip cookies. I’m dying to open the
bag right now, but I grit my teeth and ignore the twist of my empty stomach.
 The bag gets heavy too quickly. This will last us only a week, even if we’re careful with it. And I don’t
feel like being careful; I feel like gorging. I shove granola bars into my pockets.
 One more thing. I hurry to the sink and refill my canteen. Then I put my head under the flow and gulp
straight from the stream. The water makes odd noises when it hits my hollow stomach.
 I start to feel panicked now that my job is done. I want to be out of here. Civilization is deadly.
 I watch the floor on my way out, worried about tripping with my heavy bag, which is why I don’t see the
silhouetted black figure on the patio until my hand is on the door.
 I hear his mumbled oath at the same time that a stupid squeak of fear escapes my mouth. I spin to sprint
for the front door, hoping the locks are not latched, or at least not difficult.
 I don’t even get two steps before rough, hard hands grab my shoulders and wrench me back against his
body. Too big, too strong to be a woman. The bass voice proves me right.
 “One sound and you die,” he threatens gruffly. I am shocked to feel a thin, sharp edge pushing into the
skin under my jaw.
 I don’t understand. I shouldn’t be given a choice. Who is this monster? I’ve never heard of one who
would break rules. I answer the only way I can.
 “Do it,” I spit through my teeth. “Just do it. I don’t want to be a filthy parasite!”
 I wait for the knife, and my heart is aching. Each beat has a name. Jamie, Jamie, Jamie. What will happen to you now?
 “Clever,” the man mutters, and it doesn’t sound like he’s speaking to me. “Must be a Seeker. And that
means a trap. How did they know?” The steel disappears from my throat, only to be replaced by a hand
as hard as iron.
 I can barely breathe under his grip.
 “Where are the rest of them?” he demands, squeezing.
 “It’s just me!” I rasp. I can’t lead him to Jamie. What will Jamie do when I don’t come back? Jamie is
hungry!
 I throw my elbow into his gut—and this really hurts. His stomach muscles are as iron hard as the hand.
Which is very strange. Muscles like that are the product of hard living or obsession, and the parasites
have neither.
 He doesn’t even suck in a breath at my blow. Desperate, I jab my heel into his instep. This catches him
off guard, and he wobbles. I wrench away, but he grabs hold of my bag, yanking me back into his body.
His hand clamps down on my throat again.
 “Feisty for a peace-loving body snatcher, aren’t you?”
 His words are nonsensical. I thought the aliens were all the same. I guess they have their nut jobs, too,
after all.
 I twist and claw, trying to break his hold. My nails catch his arm, but this just makes him tighten his hold
on my throat.
 “I will kill you, you worthless body thief. I’m not bluffing.”
 “Do it, then!”
 Suddenly he gasps, and I wonder if any of my flailing limbs have made contact. I don’t feel any new
bruises.
 He lets go of my arm and grabs my hair. This must be it. He’s going to cut my throat. I brace for the
slice of the knife.
 But the hand on my throat eases up, and then his fingers are fumbling on the back of my neck, rough and
warm on my skin.
 “Impossible,” he breathes.
 Something hits the floor with a thud. He’s dropped the knife? I try to think of a way to get it. Maybe if I
fall. The hand on my neck isn’t tight enough to keep me from yanking free. I think I heard where the
blade landed.
 He spins me around suddenly. There is a click, and light blinds my left eye. I gasp and automatically try
to twist away from it. His hand tightens in my hair. The light flickers to my right eye.
“I can’t believe it,” he whispers. “You’re still human.”
 His hands grab my face from both sides, and before I can pull free, his lips come down hard on mine.
 I’m frozen for half a second. No one has ever kissed me in my life. Not a real kiss. Just my parents’
pecks on the cheek or forehead, so many years ago. This is something I thought I would never feel. I’m
not sure exactly what it feels like, though. There’s too much panic, too much terror, too much adrenaline.
 I jerk my knee up in a sharp thrust.
 He chokes out a wheezing sound, and I’m free. Instead of running for the front of the house again like he
expects, I duck under his arm and leap through the open door. I think I can outrun him, even with my
load. I’ve got a head start, and he’s still making pained noises. I know where I’m going—I won’t leave a
path he can see in the dark. I never dropped the food, and that’s good. I think the granola bars are a
loss, though.
 “Wait!” he yells.
 Shut up, I think, but I don’t yell back.
 He’s running after me. I can hear his voice getting closer. “I’m not one of them!”
 Sure. I keep my eyes on the sand and sprint. My dad used to say I ran like a cheetah. I was the fastest
on my track team, state champion, back before the end of the world.
 “Listen to me!” He’s still yelling at full volume. “Look! I’ll prove it. Just stop and look at me!”
 Not likely. I pivot off the wash and flit through the mesquites.
 “I didn’t think there was anyone left! Please, I need to talk to you!”
 His voice surprises me—it is too close.
 “I’m sorry I kissed you! That was stupid! I’ve just been alone so long!”
 “Shut up!” I don’t say it loudly, but I know he hears. He’s getting even closer. I’ve never been outrun
before. I push my legs harder.
 There’s a low grunt to his breathing as he speeds up, too.
 Something big flies into my back, and I go down. I taste dirt in my mouth, and I’m pinned by something
so heavy I can hardly breathe.
 “Wait. A. Minute,” he huffs.
 He shifts his weight and rolls me over. He straddles my chest, trapping my arms under his legs. He is
squishing my food. I growl and try to squirm out from under him.
 “Look, look, look!” he says. He pulls a small cylinder from his hip pocket and twists the top. A beam of
light shoots out the end.
 He turns the flashlight on his face.
 The light makes his skin yellow. It shows prominent cheekbones beside a long thin nose and a sharply
squared-off jaw. His lips are stretched into a grin, but I can see that they are full, for a man. His
eyebrows and lashes are bleached out from sun.
 But that’s not what he is showing me.
 His eyes, clear liquid sienna in the illumination, shine with no more than human reflection. He bounces the
light between left and right.
 “See? See? I’m just like you.”
 “Let me see your neck.” Suspicion is thick in my voice. I don’t let myself believe that this is more than a
trick. I don’t understand the point of the charade, but I’m sure there is one. There is no hope anymore.
 His lips twist. “Well… That won’t exactly help anything. Aren’t the eyes enough? You know I’m not
one of them.”
 “Why won’t you show me your neck?”
 “Because I have a scar there,” he admits.
 I try to squirm out from under him again, and his hand pins my shoulder.
 “It’s self-inflicted,” he explains. “I think I did a pretty good job, though it hurt like hell. I don’t have all
that pretty hair to cover my neck. The scar helps me blend in.”
 “Get off me.”
 He hesitates, then gets to his feet in one easy move, not needing to use his hands. He holds one out,
palm up, to me.
 “Please don’t run away. And, um, I’d rather you didn’t kick me again, either.”
 I don’t move. I know he can catch me if I try to run.
 “Who are you?” I whisper.
 He smiles wide. “My name is Jared Howe. I haven’t spoken to another human being in more than two
years, so I’m sure I must seem… a little crazy to you. Please, forgive that and tell me your name,
anyway.”
 “Melanie,” I whisper.
 “Melanie,” he repeats. “I can’t tell you how delighted I am to meet you.”
 I grip my bag tightly, keeping my eyes on him. He reaches his hand down toward me slowly.
 And I take it.
  It isn’t until I see my hand curl voluntarily around his that I realize I believe him.
 He helps me to my feet and doesn’t release my hand when I’m up.
 “What now?” I ask guardedly.
 “Well, we can’t stay here for long. Will you come back with me to the house? I left my bag. You beat
me to the fridge.”
 I shake my head.
 He seems to realize how brittle I am, how close to breaking.
 “Will you wait for me here, then?” he asks in a gentle voice. “I’ll be very quick. Let me get us some
more food.”
 “Us?”
 “Do you really think I’m going to let you disappear? I’ll follow you even if you tell me not to.”
 I don’t want to disappear from him.
 “I…” How can I not trust another human completely? We’re family—both part of the brotherhood of
extinction. “I don’t have time. I have so far to go and… Jamie is waiting.”
 “You’re not alone,” he realizes. His expression shows uncertainty for the first time.
 “My brother. He’s just nine, and he’s so frightened when I’m away. It will take me half the night to get
back to him. He won’t know if I’ve been caught. He’s so hungry. ” As if to make my point, my stomach
growls loudly.
 Jared’s smile is back, brighter than before. “Will it help if I give you a ride?”
 “A ride?” I echo.
 “I’ll make you a deal. You wait here while I gather more food, and I’ll take you anywhere you want to
go in my jeep. It’s faster than running—even faster than you running.”
 “You have a car?”
 “Of course. Do you think I walked out here?”
 I think of the six hours it took me to walk here, and my forehead furrows.
 “We’ll be back to your brother in no time,” he promises. “Don’t move from this spot, okay?”
 I nod.
 “And eat something, please. I don’t want your stomach to give us away.” He grins, 

 My mother drove me to the airport with the windows rolled down. It was seventy-five degrees in
Phoenix, the sky a perfect, cloudless blue. I was wearing my favorite shirt — sleeveless, white eyelet
lace; I was wearing it as a farewell gesture. My carry-on item was a parka.
In the Olympic Peninsula of northwest Washington State, a small town named Forks exists under a
near-constant cover of clouds. It rains on this inconsequential town more than any other place in the
United States of America. It was from this town and its gloomy, omnipresent shade that my mother
escaped with me when I was only a few months old. It was in this town that I'd been compelled to spend
a month every summer until I was fourteen. That was the year I finally put my foot down; these past three
summers, my dad, Charlie, vacationed with me in California for two weeks instead.
It was to Forks that I now exiled myself— an action that I took with great horror. I detested Forks.
I loved Phoenix. I loved the sun and the blistering heat. I loved the vigorous, sprawling city.
"Bella," my mom said to me — the last of a thousand times — before I got on the plane. "You don't have
to do this."
My mom looks like me, except with short hair and laugh lines. I felt a spasm of panic as I stared at her
wide, childlike eyes. How could I leave my loving, erratic, harebrained mother to fend for herself? Of
course she had Phil now, so the bills would probably get paid, there would be food in the refrigerator,
gas in her car, and someone to call when she got lost, but still…
"I want to go," I lied. I'd always been a bad liar, but I'd been saying this lie so frequently lately that it
sounded almost convincing now.
"Tell Charlie I said hi."
"I will."
"I'll see you soon," she insisted. "You can come home whenever you want — I'll come right back as soon
as you need me."
But I could see the sacrifice in her eyes behind the promise.
"Don't worry about me," I urged. "It'll be great. I love you, Mom."She hugged me tightly for a minute, and then I got on the plane, and she was gone.
It's a four-hour flight from Phoenix to Seattle, another hour in a small plane up to Port Angeles, and then
an hour drive back down to Forks. Flying doesn't bother me; the hour in the car with Charlie, though, I
was a little worried about.
Charlie had really been fairly nice about the whole thing. He seemed genuinely pleased that I was coming
to live with him for the first time with any degree of permanence. He'd already gotten me registered for
high school and was going to help me get a car.
But it was sure to be awkward with Charlie. Neither of us was what anyone would call verbose, and I
didn't know what there was to say regardless. I knew he was more than a little confused by my decision
— like my mother before me, I hadn't made a secret of my distaste for Forks.
When I landed in Port Angeles, it was raining. I didn't see it as an omen — just unavoidable. I'd already
said my goodbyes to the sun.
Charlie was waiting for me with the cruiser. This I was expecting, too. Charlie is Police Chief Swan to the
good people of Forks. My primary motivation behind buying a car, despite the scarcity of my funds, was
that I refused to be driven around town in a car with red and blue lights on top. Nothing slows down
traffic like a cop.
Charlie gave me an awkward, one-armed hug when I stumbled my way off the plane.
"It's good to see you, Bells," he said, smiling as he automatically caught and steadied me. "You haven't
changed much. How's Renée?"
"Mom's fine. It's good to see you, too, Dad." I wasn't allowed to call him Charlie to his face.
I had only a few bags. Most of my Arizona clothes were too permeable for Washington. My mom and I
had pooled our resources to supplement my winter wardrobe, but it was still scanty. It all fit easily into
the trunk of the cruiser.
"I found a good car for you, really cheap," he announced when we were strapped in.
"What kind of car?" I was suspicious of the way he said "good car for you" as opposed to just "good
car."
"Well, it's a truck actually, a Chevy."
"Where did you find it?"
"Do you remember Billy Black down at La Push?" La Push is the tiny Indian reservation on the coast.
"No."
"He used to go fishing with us during the summer," Charlie prompted.
That would explain why I didn't remember him. I do a good job of blocking painful, unnecessary things
from my memory.
"He's in a wheelchair now," Charlie continued when I didn't respond, "so he can't drive anymore, and he
offered to sell me his truck cheap."
"What year is it?" I could see from his change of expression that this was the question he was hoping Iwouldn't ask.
"Well, Billy's done a lot of work on the engine — it's only a few years old, really."
I hoped he didn't think so little of me as to believe I would give up that easily. "When did he buy it?"
"He bought it in 1984, I think."
"Did he buy it new?"
"Well, no. I think it was new in the early sixties — or late fifties at the earliest," he admitted sheepishly.
"Ch — Dad, I don't really know anything about cars. I wouldn't be able to fix it if anything went wrong,
and I couldn't afford a mechanic…"
"Really, Bella, the thing runs great. They don't build them like that anymore."
The thing, I thought to myself… it had possibilities — as a nickname, at the very least.
"How cheap is cheap?" After all, that was the part I couldn't compromise on.
"Well, honey, I kind of already bought it for you. As a homecoming gift." Charlie peeked sideways at me
with a hopeful expression.
Wow. Free.
"You didn't need to do that, Dad. I was going to buy myself a car."
"I don't mind. I want you to be happy here." He was looking ahead at the road when he said this. Charlie
wasn't comfortable with expressing his emotions out loud. I inherited that from him. So I was looking
straight ahead as I responded.
"That's really nice, Dad. Thanks. I really appreciate it." No need to add that my being happy in Forks is
an impossibility. He didn't need to suffer along with me. And I never looked a free truck in the mouth —
or engine.
"Well, now, you're welcome," he mumbled, embarrassed by my thanks.
We exchanged a few more comments on the weather, which was wet, and that was pretty much it for
Conversation. We stared out the windows in silence.
It was beautiful, of course; I couldn't deny that. Everything was green: the trees, their trunks covered with
moss, their branches hanging with a canopy of it, the ground covered with ferns. Even the air filtered
down greenly through the leaves.
It was too green — an alien planet.
Eventually we made it to Charlie's. He still lived in the small, two-bedroom house that he'd bought with
my mother in the early days of their marriage. Those were the only kind of days their marriage had — the
early ones. There, parked on the street in front of the house that never changed, was my new — well,
new to me — truck. It was a faded red color, with big, rounded fenders and a bulbous cab. To my
intense surprise, I loved it. I didn't know if it would run, but I could see myself in it. Plus, it was one of
those solid iron affairs that never gets damaged — the kind you see at the scene of an accident, paint
unscratched, surrounded by the pieces of the foreign car it had destroyed.
Wow, Dad, I love it! Thanks!" Now my horrific day tomorrow would be just that much less dreadful. I
wouldn't be faced with the choice of either walking two miles in the rain to school or accepting a ride in
the Chief's cruiser.
"I'm glad you like it," Charlie said gruffly, embarrassed again.
It took only one trip to get all my stuff upstairs. I got the west bedroom that faced out over the front yard.
The room was familiar; it had been belonged to me since I was born. The wooden floor, the light blue
walls, the peaked ceiling, the yellowed lace curtains around the window — these were all a part of my
childhood. The only changes Charlie had ever made were switching the crib for a bed and adding a desk
as I grew. The desk now held a secondhand computer, with the phone line for the modem stapled along
the floor to the nearest phone jack. This was a stipulation from my mother, so that we could stay in touch
easily. The rocking chair from my baby days was still in the corner.
There was only one small bathroom at the top of the stairs, which I would have to share with Charlie. I
was trying not to dwell too much on that fact.
One of the best things about Charlie is he doesn't hover. He left me alone to unpack and get settled, a
feat that would have been altogether impossible for my mother. It was nice to be alone, not to have to
smile and look pleased; a relief to stare dejectedly out the window at the sheeting rain and let just a few
tears escape. I wasn't in the mood to go on a real crying jag. I would save that for bedtime, when I
would have to think about the coming morning.
Forks High School had a frightening total of only three hundred and fifty-seven — now fifty-eight —
students; there were more than seven hundred people in my junior class alone back home. All of the kids
here had grown up together — their grandparents had been toddlers together.
I would be the new girl from the big city, a curiosity, a freak.
Maybe, if I looked like a girl from Phoenix should, I could work this to my advantage. But physically, I'd
never fit in anywhere. I should be tan, sporty, blond — a volleyball player, or a cheerleader, perhaps —
all the things that go with living in the valley of the sun.
Instead, I was ivory-skinned, without even the excuse of blue eyes or red hair, despite the constant
sunshine. I had always been slender, but soft somehow, obviously not an athlete; I didn't have the
necessary hand-eye coordination to play sports without humiliating myself — and harming both myself
and anyone else who stood too close.
When I finished putting my clothes in the old pine dresser, I took my bag of bathroom necessities and
went to the communal bathroom to clean myself up after the day of travel. I looked at my face in the
mirror as I brushed through my tangled, damp hair. Maybe it was the light, but already I looked sallower,
unhealthy. My skin could be pretty — it was very clear, almost translucent-looking — but it all depended
on color. I had no color here.
Facing my pallid reflection in the mirror, I was forced to admit that I was lying to myself. It wasn't just
physically that I'd never fit in. And if I couldn't find a niche in a school with three thousand people, what
were my chances here?
I didn't relate well to people my age. Maybe the truth was that I didn't relate well I didn't sleep well that night, even after I was done crying. The constant whooshing of the rain and wind
across the roof wouldn't fade into the background. I pulled the faded old quilt over my head, and later
added the pillow, too. But I couldn't fall asleep until after midnight, when the rain finally settled into a
quieter drizzle.
Thick fog was all I could see out my window in the morning, and I could feel the claustrophobia creeping
up on me. You could never see the sky here; it was like a cage.
Breakfast with Charlie was a quiet event. He wished me good luck at school. I thanked him, knowing his
hope was wasted. Good luck tended to avoid me. Charlie left first, off to the police station that was his
wife and family. After he left, I sat at the old square oak table in one of the three unmatching chairs and
examined his small kitchen, with its dark paneled walls, bright yellow cabinets, and white linoleum floor.
Nothing was changed. My mother had painted the cabinets eighteen years ago in an attempt to bring
some sunshine into the house. Over the small fireplace in the adjoining handkerchief-sized family room
was a row of pictures. First a wedding picture of Charlie and my mom in Las Vegas, then one of the
three of us in the hospital after I was born, taken by a helpful nurse, followed by the procession of my
school pictures up to last year's. Those were embarrassing to look at — I would have to see what I
could do to get Charlie to put them somewhere else, at least while I was living here.
It was impossible, being in this house, not to realize that Charlie had never gotten over my mom. It made
me uncomfortable.
I didn't want to be too early to school, but I couldn't stay in the house anymore. I donned my jacket —
which had the feel of a biohazard suit — and headed out into the rain.
It was just drizzling still, not enough to soak me through immediately as I reached for the house key that
was always hidden under the eaves by the door, and locked up. The sloshing of my new waterproof
boots was unnerving. I missed the normal crunch of gravel as I walked. I couldn't pause and admire my
truck again as I wanted; I was in a hurry to get out of the misty wet that swirled around my head and
clung to my hair under my hood.
Inside the truck, it was nice and dry. Either Billy or Charlie had obviously cleaned it up, but the tan
upholstered seats still smelled faintly of tobacco, gasoline, and peppermint. The engine started quickly, to
my relief, but loudly, roaring to life and then idling at top volume. Well, a truck this old was bound to
have a flaw. The antique radio worked, a plus that I hadn't expected.
Finding the school wasn't difficult, though I'd never been there before. The school was, like most other
things, just off the highway. It was not obvious that it was a school; only the sign, which declared it to be
the Forks High School, made me stop. It looked like a collection of matching houses, built with
maroon-colored bricks. There were so many trees and shrubs I couldn't see its size at first. Where was
the feel of the institution? I wondered nostalgically. Where were the chain-link fences, the metal
detectors?
I parked in front of the first building, which had a small sign over the door reading front office. No one
else was parked there, so I was sure it was off limits, but I decided I would get directions inside instead
of circling around in the rain like an idiot. I stepped unwillingly out of the toasty truck cab and walked
down a little stone path lined with dark hedges. I took a deep breath before opening the door.
Inside, it was brightly lit, and warmer than I'd hoped. The office was small; a little waiting area with
padded folding chairs, orange-flecked commercial carpet, notices and awards cluttering the walls, a big
clock ticking loudly. Plants grew everywhere in large plastic pots, as if there wasn't enough greeneryoutside. The room was cut in half by a long counter, cluttered with wire baskets full of papers and
brightly colored flyers taped to its front. There were three desks behind the counter, one of which was
manned by a large, red-haired woman wearing glasses. She was wearing a purple t-shirt, which
immediately made me feel overdressed.
The red-haired woman looked up. "Can I help you?"
"I'm Isabella Swan," I informed her, and saw the immediate awareness light her eyes. I was expected, a
topic of gossip no doubt. Daughter of the Chief's flighty ex-wife, come home at last.
"Of course," she said. She dug through a precariously stacked pile of documents on her desk till she
found the ones she was looking for. "I have your schedule right here, and a map of the school." She
brought several sheets to the counter to show roe.
She went through my classes for me, highlighting the best route to each on the map, and gave me a slip to
have each teacher sign, which I was to bring back at the end of the day. She smiled at me and hoped,
like Charlie, that I would like it here in Forks. I smiled back as convincingly as I could.
When I went back out to my truck, other students were starting to arrive. I drove around the school,
following the line of traffic. I was glad to see that most of the cars were older like mine, nothing flashy. At
home I'd lived in one of the few lower-income neighborhoods that were included in the Paradise Valley
District. It was a common thing to see a new Mercedes or Porsche in the student lot. The nicest car here
was a shiny Volvo, and it stood out. Still, I cut the engine as soon as I was in a spot, so that the
thunderous volume wouldn't draw attention to me.
I looked at the map in the truck, trying to memorize it now; hopefully I wouldn't have to walk around with
it stuck in front of my nose all day. I stuffed everything in my bag, slung the strap over my shoulder, and
sucked in a huge breath. I can do this, I lied to myself feebly. No one was going to bite me. I finally
exhaled and stepped out of the truck.
I kept my face pulled back into my hood as I walked to the sidewalk, crowded with teenagers. My plain
black jacket didn't stand out, I noticed with relief.
Once I got around the cafeteria, building three was easy to spot. A large black "3" was painted on a
white square on the east corner. I felt my breathing gradually creeping toward hyperventilation as I
approached the door. I tried holding my breath as I followed two unisex raincoats through the door.
The classroom was small. The people in front of me stopped just inside the door to hang up their coats
on a long row of hooks. I copied them. They were two girls, one a porcelain-colored blonde, the other
also pale, with light brown hair. At least my skin wouldn't be a standout here.
I took the slip up to the teacher, a tall, balding man whose desk had a nameplate identifying him as Mr.
Mason. He gawked at me when he saw my name — not an encouraging response — and of course I
flushed tomato red. But at least he sent me to an empty desk at the back without introducing me to the
class. It was harder for my new classmates to stare at me in the back, but somehow, they managed. I
kept my eyes down on the reading list the teacher had given me. It was fairly basic: Bronte, Shakespeare,
Chaucer, Faulkner. I'd already read everything. That was comforting… and boring. I wondered if my
mom would send me my folder of old essays, or if she would think that was cheating. I went through
different arguments with her in my head while the teacher droned on.
When the bell rang, a nasal buzzing sound, a gangly boy with skin problems and hair black as an oil slick
leaned across the aisle to talk to me."You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" He looked like the overly helpful, chess club type.
"Bella," I corrected. Everyone within a three-seat radius turned to look at me.
"Where's your next class?" he asked.
I had to check in my bag. "Um, Government, with Jefferson, in building six."
There was nowhere to look without meeting curious eyes.
"I'm headed toward building four, I could show you the way…" Definitely over-helpful. "I'm Eric," he
added.
I smiled tentatively. "Thanks."
We got our jackets and headed out into the rain, which had picked up. I could have sworn several
people behind us were walking close enough to eavesdrop. I hoped I wasn't getting paranoid.
"So, this is a lot different than Phoenix, huh?" he asked.
"Very."
"It doesn't rain much there, does it?"
"Three or four times a year."
"Wow, what must that be like?" he wondered.
"Sunny," I told him.
"You don't look very tan."
"My mother is part albino."
He studied my face apprehensively, and I sighed. It looked like clouds and a sense of humor didn't mix.
A few months of this and I'd forget how to use sarcasm.
We walked back around the cafeteria, to the south buildings by the gym. Eric walked me right to the
door, though it was clearly marked.
"Well, good luck," he said as I touched the handle. "Maybe we'll have some other classes together." He
sounded hopeful.
I smiled at him vaguely and went inside.
The rest of the morning passed in about the same fashion. My Trigonometry teacher, Mr. Varner, who I
would have hated anyway just because of the subject he taught, was the only one who made me stand in
front of the class and introduce myself. I stammered, blushed, and tripped over my own boots on the
way to my seat.
After two classes, I started to recognize several of the faces in each class. There was always someone
braver than the others who would introduce themselves and ask me questions about how I was liking
Forks. I tried to be diplomatic, but mostly I just lied a lot. At least I never needed the map.
One girl sat next to me in both Trig and Spanish, and she walked with me to the cafeteria for lunch. She
was tiny, several inches shorter than my five feet four inches, but her wildly curly dark hair made up a lotof the difference between our heights. I couldn't remember her name, so I smiled and nodded as she
prattled about teachers and classes. I didn't try to keep up.
We sat at the end of a full table with several of her friends, who she introduced to me. I forgot all their
names as soon as she spoke them. They seemed impressed by her bravery in speaking to me. The boy
from English, Eric, waved at me from across the room.
It was there, sitting in the lunchroom, trying to make conversation with seven curious strangers, that I first
saw them.
They were sitting in the corner of the cafeteria, as far away from where I sat as possible in the long room.
There were five of them. They weren't talking, and they weren't eating, though they each had a tray of
untouched food in front of them. They weren't gawking at me, unlike most of the other students, so it was
safe to stare at them without fear of meeting an excessively interested pair of eyes. But it was none of


 I stared because their faces, so different, so similar, were all devastatingly, inhumanly beautiful. They
were faces you never expected to see except perhaps on the airbrushed pages of a fashion magazine. Or
painted by an old master as the face of an angel. It was hard to decide who was the most beautiful —
maybe the perfect blond girl, or the bronze-haired boy.
They were all looking away — away from each other, away from the other students, away from anything
in particular as far as I could tell. As I watched, the small girl rose with her tray — unopened soda,
unbitten apple — and walked away with a quick, graceful lope that belonged on a runway. I watched,
amazed at her lithe dancer's step, till she dumped her tray and glided through the back door, faster than I
would have thought possible. My eyes darted back to the others, who sat unchanging.
"Who are they?" I asked the girl from my Spanish class, whose name I'd forgotten.
As she looked up to see who I meant — though already knowing, probably, from my tone — suddenly
he looked at her, the thinner one, the boyish one, the youngest, perhaps. He looked at my neighbor for
just a fraction of a second, and then his dark eyes flickered to mine.
He looked away quickly, more quickly than I could, though in a flush of embarrassment I dropped myeyes at once. In that brief flash of a glance, his face held nothing of interest — it was as if she had called
his name, and he'd looked up in involuntary response, already having decided not to answer.
My neighbor giggled in embarrassment, looking at the table like I did.
"That's Edward and Emmett Cullen, and Rosalie and Jasper Hale. The one who left was Alice Cullen;
they all live together with Dr. Cullen and his wife." She said this under her breath.
I glanced sideways at the beautiful boy, who was looking at his tray now, picking a bagel to pieces with
long, pale fingers. His mouth was moving very quickly, his perfect lips barely opening. The other three still
looked away, and yet I felt he was speaking quietly to them.
Strange, unpopular names, I thought. The kinds of names grandparents had. But maybe that was in vogue
here — small town names? I finally remembered that my neighbor was called Jessica, a perfectly
common name. There were two girls named Jessica in my History class back home.
"They are… very nice-looking." I struggled with the conspicuous understatement.
"Yes!" Jessica agreed with another giggle. "They're all together though — Emmett and Rosalie, and
Jasper and Alice, I mean. And they live together." Her voice held all the shock and condemnation of the
small town, I thought critically. But, if I was being honest, I had to admit that even in Phoenix, it would
cause gossip.
"Which ones are the Cullens?" I asked. "They don't look related…"
"Oh, they're not. Dr. Cullen is really young, in his twenties or early thirties. They're all adopted. The
Hales are brother and sister, twins — the blondes — and they're foster children."
"They look a little old for foster children."
"They are now, Jasper and Rosalie are both eighteen, but they've been with Mrs. Cullen since they were
eight. She's their aunt or something like that."
"That's really kind of nice — for them to take care of all those kids like that, when they're so young and
everything."
"I guess so," Jessica admitted reluctantly, and I got the impression that she didn't like the doctor and his
wife for some reason. With the glances she was throwing at their adopted children, I would presume the
reason was jealousy. "I think that Mrs. Cullen can't have any kids, though," she added, as if that lessened
their kindness.
Throughout all this conversation, my eyes flickered again and again to the table where the strange family
sat. They continued to look at the walls and not eat.
"Have they always lived in Forks?" I asked. Surely I would have noticed them on one of my summers
here.
"No," she said in a voice that implied it should be obvious, even to a new arrival like me. "They just
moved down two years ago from somewhere in Alaska."
I felt a surge of pity, and relief. Pity because, as beautiful as they were, they were outsiders, clearly not
accepted. Relief that I wasn't the only newcomer here, and certainly not the most interesting by any
standard.As I examined them, the youngest, one of the Cullens, looked up and met my gaze, this time with evident
curiosity in his expression. As I looked swiftly away, it seemed to me that his glance held some kind of
unmet expectation.
"Which one is the boy with the reddish brown hair?" I asked. I peeked at him from the corner of my eye,
and he was still staring at me, but not gawking like the other students had today — he had a slightly
frustrated expression. I looked down again.
"That's Edward. He's gorgeous, of course, but don't waste your time. He doesn't date. Apparently none
of the girls here are good-looking enough for him." She sniffed, a clear case of sour grapes. I wondered
when he'd turned her down.
I bit my lip to hide my smile. Then I glanced at him again. His face was turned away, but I thought his
cheek appeared lifted, as if he were smiling, too.
After a few more minutes, the four of them left the table together. They all were noticeably graceful —
even the big, brawny one. It was unsettling to watch. The one named Edward didn't look at me again.
I sat at the table with Jessica and her friends longer than I would have if I'd been sitting alone. I was
anxious not to be late for class on my first day. One of my new acquaintances, who considerately
reminded me that her name was Angela, had Biology II with me the next hour. We walked to class
together in silence. She was shy, too.
When we entered the classroom, Angela went to sit at a black-topped lab table exactly like the ones I
was used to. She already had a neighbor. In fact, all the tables were filled but one. Next to the center
aisle, I recognized Edward Cullen by his unusual hair, sitting next to that single open seat.
As I walked down the aisle to introduce myself to the teacher and get my slip signed, I was watching him
surreptitiously. Just as I passed, he suddenly went rigid in his seat. He stared at me again, meeting my
eyes with the strangest expression on his face — it was hostile, furious. I looked away quickly, shocked,
going red again. I stumbled over a book in the walkway and had to catch myself on the edge of a table.
The girl sitting there giggled.
I'd noticed that his eyes were black — coal black.
Mr. Banner signed my slip and handed me a book with no nonsense about introductions. I could tell we
were going to get along. Of course, he had no choice but to send me to the one open seat in the middle
of the room. I kept my eyes down as I went to sit by him, bewildered by the antagonistic stare he'd given
me.
I didn't look up as I set my book on the table and took my seat, but I saw his posture change from the
corner of my eye. He was leaning away from me, sitting on the extreme edge of his chair and averting his
face like he smelled something bad. Inconspicuously, I sniffed my hair. It smelled like strawberries, the
scent of my favorite shampoo. It seemed an innocent enough odor. I let my hair fall over my right
shoulder, making a dark curtain between us, and tried to pay attention to the teacher.
Unfortunately the lecture was on cellular anatomy, something I'd already studied. I took notes carefully
anyway, always looking down.
I couldn't stop myself from peeking occasionally through the screen of my hair at the strange boy next to
me. During the whole class, he never relaxed his stiff position on the edge of his chair, sitting as far from
me as possible. I could see his hand on his left leg was clenched into a fist, tendons standing out under his
pale skin. This, too, he never relaxed. He had the long sleeves of his white shirt pushed up to his elbows,and his forearm was surprisingly hard and muscular beneath his light skin. He wasn't nearly as slight as
he'd looked next to his burly brother.
The class seemed to drag on longer than the others. Was it because the day was finally coming to a
close, or because I was waiting for his tight fist to loosen? It never did; he continued to sit so still it
looked like he wasn't breathing. What was wrong with him? Was this his normal behavior? I questioned
my judgment on Jessica's bitterness at lunch today. Maybe she was not as resentful as I'd thought.
It couldn't have anything to do with me. He didn't know me from Eve.
I peeked up at him one more time, and regretted it. He was glaring down at me again, his black eyes full
of revulsion. As I flinched away from him, shrinking against my chair, the phrase if looks could kill
suddenly ran through my mind.
At that moment, the bell rang loudly, making me jump, and Edward Cullen was out of his seat. Fluidly he
rose — he was much taller than I'd thought — his back to me, and he was out the door before anyone
else was out of their seat.
I sat frozen in my seat, staring blankly after him. He was so mean. It wasn't fair. I began gathering up my
things slowly, trying to block the anger that filled me, for fear my eyes would tear up. For some reason,
my temper was hardwired to my tear ducts. I usually cried when I was angry, a humiliating tendency.
"Aren't you Isabella Swan?" a male voice asked.
I looked up to see a cute, baby-faced boy, his pale blond hair carefully gelled into orderly spikes, smiling
at me in a friendly way. He obviously didn't think I smelled bad.
"Bella," I corrected him, with a smile.
"I'm Mike."
"Hi, Mike."
"Do you need any help finding your next class?"
"I'm headed to the gym, actually. I think I can find it."
"That's my next class, too." He seemed thrilled, though it wasn't that big of a coincidence in a school this
small.
We walked to class together; he was a chatterer — he supplied most of the conversation, which made it
easy for me. He'd lived in California till he was ten, so he knew how I felt about the sun. It turned out he
was in my English class also. He was the nicest person I'd met today.
But as we were entering the gym, he asked, "So, did you stab Edward Cullen with a pencil or what? I've
never seen him act like that."
I cringed. So I wasn't the only one who had noticed. And, apparently, that wasn't Edward Cullen's usual
behavior. I decided to play dumb.
"Was that the boy I sat next to in Biology?" I asked artlessly.
"Yes," he said. "He looked like he was in pain or something."
"I don't know," I responded. "I never spoke to him.""He's a weird guy." Mike lingered by me instead of heading to the dressing room. "If I were lucky enough
to sit by you, I would have talked to you."
I smiled at him before walking through the girls' locker room door. He was friendly and clearly admiring.
But it wasn't enough to ease my irritation.
The Gym
 The next day was better… and worse.
It was better because it wasn't raining yet, though the clouds were dense and opaque. It was easier
because I knew what to expect of my day. Mike came to sit by me in English, and walked me to my next
class, with Chess Club Eric glaring at him all the while; that was nattering. People didn't look at me quite
as much as they had yesterday. I sat with a big group at lunch that included Mike, Eric, Jessica, and
several other people whose names and faces I now remembered. I began to feel like I was treading
water, instead of drowning in it.
It was worse because I was tired; I still couldn't sleep with the wind echoing around the house. It was
worse because Mr. Varner called on me in Trig when my hand wasn't raised and I had the wrong
answer. It was miserable because I had to play volleyball, and the one time I didn't cringe out of the way
of the ball, I hit my teammate in the head with it. And it was worse because Edward Cullen wasn't in
school at all.
All morning I was dreading lunch, fearing his bizarre glares. Part of me wanted to confront him and
demand to know what his problem was. While I was lying sleepless in my bed, I even imagined what I
would say. But I knew myself too well to think I would really have the guts to do it. I made the Cowardly
Lion look like the terminator.
But when I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica — trying to keep my eyes from sweeping the place for
him, and failing entirely — I saw that his four siblings of sorts were sitting together at the same table, and
he was not with them.
Mike intercepted us and steered us to his table. Jessica seemed elated by the attention, and her friends
quickly joined us. But as I tried to listen to their easy chatter, I was terribly uncomfortable, waiting
nervously for the moment he would arrive. I hoped that he would simply ignore me when he came, and
prove my suspicions false.
He didn't come, and as time passed I grew more and more tense.
I walked to Biology with more confidence when, by the end of lunch, he still hadn't showed. Mike, who
was taking on the qualities of a golden retriever, walked faithfully by my side to class. I held my breath at
the door, but Edward Cullen wasn't there, either. I exhaled and went to my seat. Mike followed, talking
about an upcoming trip to the beach. He lingered by my desk till the bell rang. Then he smiled at me
wistfully and went to sit by a girl with braces and a bad perm. It looked like I was going to have to do
something about Mike, and it wouldn't be easy. In a town like this, where everyone lived on top of
everyone else, diplomacy was essential. I had never been enormously tactful; I had no practice dealing
with overly friendly boys.
I was relieved that I had the desk to myself, that Edward was absent. I told myself that repeatedly. But I
couldn't get rid of the nagging suspicion that I was the reason he wasn't there. It was ridiculous, and
egotistical, to think that I could affect anyone that strongly. It was impossible. And yet I couldn't stop
worrying that it was true.
When the school day was finally done, and the blush was fading out of my cheeks from the volleyball
incident, I changed quickly back into my jeans and navy blue sweater. I hurried from the girls' locker
room, pleased to find that I had successfully evaded my retriever friend for the moment. I walked swiftly
out to the parking lot. It was crowded now with fleeing students. I got in my truck and dug through my
bag to make sure I had what I needed.
Last night I'd discovered that Charlie couldn't cook much besides fried eggs and bacon. So I requestedthat I be assigned kitchen detail for the duration of my stay. He was willing enough to hand over the keys
to the banquet hall. I also found out that he had no food in the house. So I had my shopping list and the
cash from the jar in the cupboard labeled FOOD MONEY, and I was on my way to the Thriftway.
I gunned my deafening engine to life, ignoring the heads that turned in my direction, and backed carefully
into a place in the line of cars that were waiting to exit the parking lot. As I waited, trying to pretend that
the earsplitting rumble was coming from someone else's car, I saw the two Cullens and the Hale twins
getting into their car. It was the shiny new Volvo. Of course. I hadn't noticed their clothes before — I'd
been too mesmerized by their faces. Now that I looked, it was obvious that they were all dressed
exceptionally well; simply, but in clothes that subtly hinted at designer origins. With their remarkable good
looks, the style with which they carried themselves, they could have worn dishrags and pulled it off. It
seemed excessive for them to have both looks and money. But as far as I could tell, life worked that way
most of the time. It didn't look as if it bought them any acceptance here.
No, I didn't fully believe that. The isolation must be their desire; I couldn't imagine any door that wouldn't
be opened by that degree of beauty.
They looked at my noisy truck as I passed them, just like everyone else. I kept my eyes straight forward
and was relieved when I finally was free of the school grounds.
The Thriftway was not far from the school, just a few streets south, off the highway. It was nice to be
inside the supermarket; it felt normal. I did the shopping at home, and I fell into the pattern of the familiar
task gladly. The store was big enough inside that I couldn't hear the tapping of the rain on the roof to
remind me where I was.
When I got home, I unloaded all the groceries, stuffing them in wherever I could find an open space. I
hoped Charlie wouldn't mind. I wrapped potatoes in foil and stuck them in the oven to bake, covered a
steak in marinade and balanced it on top of a carton of eggs in the fridge.
When I was finished with that, I took my book bag upstairs. Before starting my homework, I changed
into a pair of dry sweats, pulled my damp hair up into a pony-tail, and checked my e-mail for the first
time. I had three messages.
I had decided to read Wuthering Heights — the novel we were currently studying in English — yet
again for the fun of it, and that's what I was doing when Charlie came home. I'd lost track of the time,
and I hurried downstairs to take the potatoes out and put the steak in to broil.
"Bella?" my father called out when he heard me on the stairs.
Who else? I thought to myself.
"Hey, Dad, welcome home."
"Thanks." He hung up his gun belt and stepped out of his boots as I bustled about the kitchen. As far as I
was aware, he'd never shot the gun on the job. But he kept it ready. When I came here as a child, he
would always remove the bullets as soon as he walked in the door. I guess he considered me old enough
now not to shoot myself by accident, and not depressed enough to shoot myself on purpose.
"What's for dinner?" he asked warily. My mother was an imaginative cook, and her experiments weren'talways edible. I was surprised, and sad, that he seemed to remember that far back.
"Steak and potatoes," I answered, and he looked relieved.
He seemed to feel awkward standing in the kitchen doing nothing; he lumbered into the living room to
watch TV while I worked. We were both more comfortable that way. I made a salad while the steaks
cooked, and set the table.
I called him in when dinner was ready, and he sniffed appreciatively as he walked into the room.
"Smells good, Bell."
"Thanks."
We ate in silence for a few minutes. It wasn't uncomfortable. Neither of us was bothered by the quiet. In
some ways, we were well suited for living together.
"So, how did you like school? Have you made any friends?" he asked as he was taking seconds.
"Well, I have a few classes with a girl named Jessica. I sit with her friends at lunch. And there's this boy,
Mike, who's very friendly. Everybody seems pretty nice." With one outstanding exception.
"That must be Mike Newton. Nice kid — nice family. His dad owns the sporting goods store just outside
of town. He makes a good living off all the backpackers who come through here."
"Do you know the Cullen family?" I asked hesitantly.
"Dr. Cullen's family? Sure. Dr. Cullen's a great man."
"They… the kids… are a little different. They don't seem to fit in very well at school."
Charlie surprised me by looking angry.
"People in this town," he muttered. "Dr. Cullen is a brilliant surgeon who could probably work in any
hospital in the world, make ten times the salary he gets here," he continued, getting louder. "We're lucky
to have him — lucky that his wife wanted to live in a small town. He's an asset to the community, and all
of those kids are well behaved and polite. I had my doubts, when they first moved in, with all those
adopted teenagers. I thought we might have some problems with them. But they're all very mature — I
haven't had one speck of trouble from any of them. That's more than I can say for the children of some
folks who have lived in this town for generations. And they stick together the way a family should —
camping trips every other weekend… Just because they're newcomers, people have to talk."
It was the longest speech I'd ever heard Charlie make. He must feel strongly about whatever people
were saying.
I backpedaled. "They seemed nice enough to me. I just noticed they kept to themselves. They're all very
attractive," I added, trying to be more complimentary.
"You should see the doctor," Charlie said, laughing. "It's a good thing he's happily married. A lot of the
nurses at the hospital have a hard time concentrating on their work with him around."
We lapsed back into silence as we finished eating. He cleared the table while I started on the dishes. He
went back to the TV, and after I finished washing the dishes by hand — no dishwasher — I went
upstairs unwillingly to work on my math homework. I could feel a tradition in the making.That night it was finally quiet. I fell asleep quickly, exhausted.
The rest of the week was uneventful. I got used to the routine of my classes. By Friday I was able to
recognize, if not name, almost all the students at school. In Gym, the kids on my team learned not to pass
me the ball and to step quickly in front of me if the other team tried to take advantage of my weakness. I
happily stayed out of their way.
Edward Cullen didn't come back to school.
Every day, I watched anxiously until the rest of the Cullens entered the cafeteria without him. Then I
could relax and join in the lunchtime conversation. Mostly it centered around a trip to the La Push Ocean
Park in two weeks that Mike was putting together. I was invited, and I had agreed to go, more out of
politeness than desire. Beaches should be hot
 By Friday I was perfectly comfortable entering my Biology class, no longer worried that Edward would
be there. For all I knew, he had dropped out of school. I tried not to think about him, but I couldn't
totally suppress the worry that I was responsible for his continued absence, ridiculous as it seemed.
My first weekend in Forks passed without incident. Charlie, unused to spending time in the usually empty
house, worked most of the weekend. I cleaned the house, got ahead on my homework, and wrote my
mom more bogusly cheerful e-mail. I did drive to the library Saturday, but it was so poorly stocked that I
didn't bother to get a card; I would have to make a date to visit Olympia or Seattle soon and find a good
bookstore. I wondered idly what kind of gas mileage the truck got… and shuddered at the thought.
The rain stayed soft over the weekend, quiet, so I was able to sleep well.
People greeted me in the parking lot Monday morning. I didn't know all their names, but I waved back
and smiled at everyone. It was colder this morning, but happily not raining. In English, Mike took his
accustomed seat by my side. We had a pop quiz on Wuthering Heights. It was straightforward, very
easy.
All in all, I was feeling a lot more comfortable than I had thought I would feel by this point. More
comfortable than I had ever expected to feel here.
When we walked out of class, the air was full of swirling bits of white. I could hear people shouting
excitedly to each other. The wind bit at my cheeks, my nose.
"Wow," Mike said. "It's snowing."
I looked at the little cotton fluffs that were building up along the sidewalk and swirling erratically past my
face.
"Ew." Snow. There went my good day.
He looked surprised. "Don't you like snow?"
"No. That means it's too cold for rain." Obviously. "Besides, I thought it was supposed to come down in
flakes — you know, each one unique and all that. These just look like the ends of Q-tips."
"Haven't you ever seen snow fall before?" he asked incredulously.
"Sure I have." I paused. "On TV."
Mike laughed. And then a big, squishy ball of dripping snow smacked into the back of his head. We bothturned to see where it came from. I had my suspicions about Eric, who was walking away, his back
toward us — in the wrong direction for his next class. Mike appatently had the same notion. He bent
over and began scraping together a pile of the white mush.
"I'll see you at lunch, okay?" I kept walking as I spoke. "Once people start throwing wet stuff, I go
inside."
He just nodded, his eyes on Eric's retreating figure.
Throughout the morning, everyone chattered excitedly about the snow; apparently it was the first snowfall
of the new year. I kept my mouth shut. Sure, it was drier than rain — until it melted in your socks.
I walked alertly to the cafeteria with Jessica after Spanish. Mush balls were flying everywhere. I kept a
binder in my hands, ready to use it as a shield if necessary. Jessica thought I was hilarious, but something
in my expression kept her from lobbing a snowball at me herself.
Mike caught up to us as we walked in the doors, laughing, with ice melting the spikes in his hair. He and
Jessica were talking animatedly about the snow fight as we got in line to buy food. I glanced toward that
table in the corner out of habit. And then I froze where I stood. There were five people at the table.
Jessica pulled on my arm.
"Hello? Bella? What do you want?"
I looked down; my ears were hot. I had no reason to feel self-conscious, I reminded myself. I hadn't
done anything wrong.
"What's with Bella?" Mike asked Jessica.
"Nothing," I answered. "I'll just get a soda today." I caught up to the end of the line.
"Aren't you hungry?" Jessica asked.
"Actually, I feel a little sick," I said, my eyes still on the floor.
I waited for them to get their food, and then followed them to a table, my eyes on my feet.
I sipped my soda slowly, my stomach churning. Twice Mike asked, with unnecessary concern, how I
was feeling.
I told him it was nothing, but I was wondering if I should play it up and escape to the nurse's office for
the next hour.
Ridiculous. I shouldn't have to run away.
I decided to permit myself one glance at the Cullen family's table. If he was glaring at me, I would skip
Biology, like the coward I was.
I kept my head down and glanced up under my lashes. None of them were looking this way. I lifted my
head a little.
They were laughing. Edward, Jasper, and Emmett all had their hair entirely saturated with melting snow.
Alice and Rosalie were leaning away as Emmett shook his dripping hair toward them. They were
enjoying the snowy day, just like everyone else — only they looked more like a scene from a movie than
the rest of us.But, aside from the laughter and playfulness, there was something different, and I couldn't quite pinpoint
what that difference was. I examined Edward the most carefully. His skin was less pale, I decided —
flushed from the snow fight maybe — the circles under his eyes much less noticeable. But there was
something more. I pondered, staring, trying to isolate the change.
"Bella, what are you staring at?" Jessica intruded, her eyes following my stare.
At that precise moment, his eyes flashed over to meet mine.
I dropped my head, letting my hair fall to conceal my face. I was sure, though, in the instant our eyes met,
that he didn't look harsh or unfriendly as he had the last time I'd seen him. He looked merely curious
again, unsatisfied in some way.
"Edward Cullen is staring at you," Jessica giggled in my ear.
"He doesn't look angry, does he?" I couldn't help asking.
"No," she said, sounding confused by my question. "Should he be?"
"I don't think he likes me," I confided. I still felt queasy. I put my head down on my arm.
"The Cullens don't like anybody… well, they don't notice anybody enough to like them. But he's still
staring at you."
"Stop looking at him," I hissed.
She snickered, but she looked away. I raised my head enough to make sure that she did, contemplating
violence if she resisted.
Mike interrupted us then — he was planning an epic battle of the blizzard in the parking lot after school
and wanted us to join. Jessica agreed enthusiastically. The way she looked at Mike left little doubt that
she would be up for anything he suggested. I kept silent. I would have to hide in the gym until the parking
lot cleared.
For the rest of the lunch hour I very carefully kept my eyes at my own table. I decided to honor the
bargain I'd made with myself. Since he didn't look angry, I would go to Biology. My stomach did
frightened little flips at the thought of sitting next to him again.
I didn't really want to walk to class with Mike as usual — he seemed to be a popular target for the
snowball snipers — but when we went to the door, everyone besides me groaned in unison. It was
raining, washing all traces of the snow away in clear, icy ribbons down the side of the walkway. I pulled
my hood up, secretly pleased. I would be free to go straight home after Gym.
Mike kept up a string of complaints on the way to building four.
Once inside the classroom, I saw with relief that my table was still empty. Mr. Banner was walking
around the room, distributing one microscope and box of slides to each table. Class didn't start for a few
minutes, and the room buzzed with conversation. I kept my eyes away from the door, doodling idly on
the cover of my notebook.
I heard very clearly when the chair next to me moved, but my eyes stayed carefully focused on the
pattern I was drawing.
"Hello," said a quiet, musical voice.I looked up, stunned that he was speaking to me. He was sitting as far away from me as the desk
allowed, but his chair was angled toward me. His hair was dripping wet, disheveled — even so, he
looked like he'd just finished shooting a commercial for hair gel. His dazzling face was friendly, open, a
slight smile on his flawless lips. But his eyes were careful.
"My name is Edward Cullen," he continued. "I didn't have a chance to introduce myself last week. You
must be Bella Swan."
My mind was spinning with confusion. Had I made up the whole thing? He was perfectly polite now. I
had to speak; he was waiting. But I couldn't think of anything conventional to say.
"H-how do you know my name?" I stammered.
He laughed a soft, enchanting laugh.
"Oh, I think everyone knows your name. The whole town's been waiting for you to arrive."
I grimaced. I knew it was something like that.
"No," I persisted stupidly. "I meant, why did you call me Bella?"
He seemed confused. "Do you prefer Isabella?"
"No, I like Bella," I said. "But I think Charlie — I mean my dad — must call me Isabella behind my back
— that's what everyone here seems to know me as," I tried to explain, feeling like an utter moron.
"Oh." He let it drop. I looked away awkwardly.
Thankfully, Mr. Banner started class at that moment. I tried to concentrate as he explained the lab we
would be doing today. The slides in the box were out of order. Working as lab partners, we had to
separate the slides of onion root tip cells into the phases of mitosis they represented and label them
accordingly. We weren't supposed to use our books. In twenty minutes, he would be coming around to
see who had it right.
"Get started," he commanded.
"Ladies first, partner?" Edward asked. I looked up to see him smiling a crooked smile so beautiful that I
could only stare at him like an idiot.
"Or I could start, if you wish." The smile faded; he was obviously wondering if I was mentally competent.
"No," I said, flushing. "I'll go ahead."
I was showing off, just a little. I'd already done this lab, and I knew what I was looking for. It should be
easy. I snapped the first slide into place under the microscope and adjusted it quickly to the 40X
objective. I studied the slide briefly.
My assessment was confident. "Prophase."
"Do you mind if I look?" he asked as I began to remove the slide. His hand caught mine, to stop me, as
he asked. His fingers were ice-cold, like he'd been holding them in a snowdrift before class. But that
wasn't why I jerked my hand away so quickly. When he touched me, it stung my hand as if an electric
current had passed through us.
"I'm sorry," he muttered, pulling his hand back immediately. However, he continued to reach for themicroscope. I watched him, still staggered, as he examined the slide for an even shorter time than I had.
"Prophase," he agreed, writing it neatly in the first space on our worksheet. He swiftly switched out the
first slide for the second, and then glanced at it cursorily.
"Anaphase," he murmured, writing it down as he spoke.
I kept my voice indifferent. "May I?"
He smirked and pushed the microscope to me.
I looked through the eyepiece eagerly, only to be disappointed. Dang it, he was right.
"Slide three?" I held out my hand without looking at him.
He handed The reasons I was so certain were that, first, I was standing in a bright shaft of sunlight—the kind of blinding clear sun that never shone on my drizzly new hometown in Forks, Washington—and second, I was looking at my Grandma Marie. Gran had been dead for six years now, so that was solid evidence toward the dream theory.

Gran hadn't changed much; her face looked just the same as I remembered it. The skin was soft and withered, bent into a thousand tiny creases that clung gently to the bone underneath. Like a dried apricot, but with a puff of thick white hair standing out in a cloud around it.

Our mouths—hers a wizened picker—spread into the same surprised half-smile at just the same time. Apparently, she hadn't been expecting to see me, either.

I was about to ask her a question; I had so many—What was she doing here in my cream? What had

she been up to in the past six years? Was Pop okay, and had they found each other, wherever they were?—but she opened her mouth when I did, so I stopped to let her go first. She paused, too, and then we Goth smiled at the little awkwardness.

"Bella!"

It wasn't Gran who called my name, and we both turned to see the addition to our small reunion. I didn't have to look to know who it was; this was a voice I would know anywhere—know, and respond to, whether I was awake or asleep… or even dead, I'd bet. The voice I'd walk through fire for—or, less dramatically, slosh every day through the cold and endless rain for.

Edward.

Even though I was always thrilled to see him—conscious or otherwise—and even though I was almost positive that I was dreaming, I panicked as Edward walked toward us through the glaring sunlight.

I panicked because Gran didn't know that I was in love with a vampire—nobody knew that—so how was I supposed to explain the fact that the brilliant sunbeams were shattering off his skin into a thousand rainbow shards like he was made of crystal or diamond?

Well, Gran, yon might have noticed that my boyfriend glitters. It's just something he does in the sun. Don't worry about it…

What was he doing? The whole reason he lived in Forks, the rainiest place in the world, was so that he could be outside in the daytime without exposing his family's secret. Yet here he was, strolling gracefully toward me—with the most beautiful smile on his angel's face—as if I were the only one here.

In that second, I wished that I was not the one exception to his mysterious talent; I usually felt grateful that I was the only person whose thoughts he couldn't hear just as clearly as if they were spoken aloud. But now I wished he could hear me, too, so that he could hear the warning I was screaming in my head.

I shot a panicked glance back at Gran, and saw that it was too late. She was just turning to stare back at me, her eyes as alarmed as mine.

Edward—still smiling so beautifully that my heart felt like it was going to swell up and burst through my chest—put his arm around my shoulder and turned to face my grandmother.

Gran's expression surprised me. Instead of looking horrified, she was staring at me sheepishly, as if waiting for a scolding. And she was standing in such a strange position—one arm held awkwardly away from her body, stretched out and then curled around the air. Like she had her arm around someone I couldn't see, someone invisible…

Only then, as I looked at the bigger picture, did I notice the huge gilt frame that enclosed my grandmother's form. Uncomprehending, I raised the hand that wasn't wrapped around Edward's waist and reached out to touch her. She mimicked the movement exactly, mirrored it. But where our fingers should have met, there was nothing but cold glass…

With a dizzying jolt, my dream abruptly became a nightmare.

There was no Gran.

That was me. Me in a mirror. Me—ancient, creased, and withered.

Edward stood beside me, casting no reflection, excruciatingly lovely and forever seventeen.

He pressed his icy, perfect lips against my wasted cheek.

"Happy birthday," he whispered.

I woke with a start—my eyelids popping open wide—and gasped. Dull gray light, the familiar light of an overcast morning, took the place of the blinding sun in my dream.

Just a dream, I told myself. It was only a dream. I took a deep breath, and then jumped again when my alarm went off. The little calendar in the corner of the clock's display informed me that today was September thirteenth.

Only a dream, but prophetic enough in one way, at least. Today was my birthday. I was officially eighteen years old.

I'd been dreading this day for months.

All through the perfect summer—the happiest summer I had ever had, the happiest summer anyone anywhere had ever had, and the rainiest summer in the history of the Olympic Peninsula—this bleak date had lurked in ambush, waiting to spring.

And now that it had hit, it was even worse than I'd feared it would be. I could feel it—I was older. Every day I got older, but this was different, worse, quantifiable. I was eighteen.

And Edward never would be.

When I went to brush my teeth, I was almost surprised that the face in the mirror hadn't changed. I stared at myself, looking for some sign of impending wrinkles in my ivory skin. The only creases were the ones on my forehead, though, and I knew that if I could manage to relax, they would disappear. I couldn't. My eyebrows stayed lodged in a worried line over my anxious brown eyes.

It was just a dream, I reminded myself again. Just a dream… but also my worst nightmare.

I skipped breakfast, in a hurry to get out of the house as quickly as possible. I wasn't entirely able to avoid my dad, and so I had to spend a few minutes acting cheerful. I honestly tried to be excited about the gifts I'd asked him not to get me, but every time I had to smile, it felt like I might start crying.

I struggled to get a grip on myself as I drove to school. The vision of Gran—I would not think of it as me—was hard to get out of my head. I couldn't feel anything but despair until I pulled into the familiar parking lot behind Forks High School and spotted Edward leaning motionlessly against his polished silver Volvo, like a marble tribute to some forgotten pagan god of beauty. The dream had not done him justice. And he was waiting there for me, just the same as every other day.

Despair momentarily vanished; wonder took its place. Even after half a year with him, I still couldn't believe that I deserved this degree of good fortune.

His sister Alice was standing by his side, waiting for me, too.

Of course Edward and Alice weren't really related (in Forks the story was that all the Cullen siblings were adopted by Dr. Carlisle Culler and his wife, Esme, both plainly too young to have teenage children), but their skin was precisely the same pale shade, their eyes had the same strange golden tint, with the same deep, bruise-like shadows beneath them. Her face, like his, was also startlingly beautiful. To someone in the know—someone like me—these similarities marked them for what they were.

The sight of Alice waiting there—her tawny eyes brilliant with excitement, and a small silver-wrapped square in her hands—made me frown. I'd told Alice I didn't want anything, anything, not gifts or even attention, for my birthday. Obviously, my wishes were being ignored.

I slammed the door of my '53 Chevy truck—a shower of rust specks fluttered down to the wet blacktop—and walked slowly toward where they waited. Alice skipped forward to meet me, her pixie face glowing under her spiky black hair.

"Happy birthday, Bella!"

"Shh!" I hissed, glancing around the lot to make sure no one had heard her. The last thing I wanted was some kind of celebration of the black event.

She ignored me. "Do you want to open your present now or later?" she asked eagerly as we made our way to where Edward still waited.

"No presents," I protested in a mumble.

She finally seemed to process my mood. "Okay… later, then. Did you like the scrapbook your mom sent you? And the camera from Charlie?"

I sighed. Of course she would know what my birthday presents were. Edward wasn't the only member of his family with unusual skills. Alice would have "seen" what my parents were planning as soon as they'd decided that themselves.

"Yeah. They're great."

"I think it's a nice idea. You're only a senior once. Might as well document the experience."

"How many times have you been a senior?"

"That's different."

We reached Edward then, and he held out his hand for mine. I took it eagerly, forgetting, for a moment, my glum mood. His skin was, as always, smooth, hard, and very cold. He gave my fingers a gentle squeeze. I looked into his liquid topa2 eyes, and my heart gave a not-quite-so-gentle squeeze of its own. Hearing the stutter in my heartbeats, he smiled again.
He lifted his free hand and traced one cool fingertip around the outside of my lips as he spoke. "So, as discussed, I am not allowed to wish you a happy birthday, is that correct?"

"Yes. That is correct." I could never quite mimic the flow of his perfect, formal articulation. It was something that could only be picked up in an earlier century.

"Just checking." He ran his hand through his tousled bronze hair. "You might have changed your mind. Most people seem to enjoy things like birthdays and gifts."

Alice laughed, and the sound was all silver, a wind chime. "Of course you'll enjoy it. Everyone is supposed to be nice to you today and give you your way, Bella. What's the worst that could happen?" She meant it as a rhetorical question.

"Getting older," I answered anyway, and my voice was not as steady as I wanted it to be.

Beside me, Edward's smile tightened into a hard line.

"Eighteen isn't very old," Alice said. "Don't women usually wait till they're twenty-nine to get upset over birthdays?"

"It's older than Edward," I mumbled.

He sighed.

"Technically," she said, keeping her tone light. "Just by one little year, though."

And I supposed… if I could be sure of the future I wanted, sure that I would get to spend forever with Edward, and Alice and the rest of the Cullens (preferably not as a wrinkled little old lady)… then a year or two one direction or the other wouldn't matter to me so much. But Edward was dead set against any future that changed me. Any future that made me like him—that made me immortal, too.

An impasse, he called it.

I couldn't really see Edward's point, to be honest. What was so great about mortality? Being a vampire didn't look like such a terrible thing—not the way the Cullens did it, anyway.

"What time will you be at the house?" Alice continued, changing the subject. From her expression, she was up to exactly the kind of thing I'd been hoping to avoid.

"I didn't know I had plans to be there."

"Oh, be fair, Bella!" she complained. "You aren't going to ruin all our fun like that, are you?"

"I thought my birthday was about what I want."

"I'll get her from Charlie's right after school," Edward told her, ignoring me altogether.

"I have to work," I protested.

"You don't, actually," Alice told me smugly. "I already spoke to Mrs. Newton about it. She's trading your shifts. She said to tell you 'Happy Birthday.'"

"I—I As the day progressed, I considered ways to get out of whatever was going down at the Cullen house tonight. It would be bad enough to have to celebrate when I was in the mood to mourn. But, worse than that, this was sure to involve attention and gifts.

Attention is never a good thing, as any other accident-prone klutz would agree. No one wants a spotlight when they're likely to fall on their face.

And I'd very pointedly asked—well, ordered really—that no one give me any presents this year. It looked like Charlie and Renee weren't the only ones who had decided to overlook that.

I'd never had much money, and that had never bothered me. Renee had raised me on a kindergarten teacher's salary. Charlie wasn't getting rich at his job, either—he was the police chief here in the tiny town of Forks. My only personal income came from the three days a week I worked at the local sporting goods store. In a town this small, I was lucky to have a job. Every penny I made went into my microscopic college fund. (College was Plan B. I was still hoping for Plan A, but Edward was just so stubborn about leaving me human…)

Edward had a lot of money—I didn't even want to think about how much. Money meant next to nothing to Edward or the rest of the Cullens. It was just something that accumulated when you had unlimited time on your hands and a sister who had an uncanny ability to predict trends in the stock market. Edward didn't seem to understand why I objected to him spending money on me—why it made me uncomfortable if he took me to an expensive restaurant in Seattle, why he wasn't allowed to buy me a car that could reach speeds over fifty-five miles an hour, or why I wouldn't let him pay my college tuition (he was ridiculously enthusiastic about Plan B). Edward thought I was being unnecessarily difficult.

But how could I let him give me things when I had nothing to reciprocate with? He, for some unfathomable reason, wanted to be with me. Anything he gave me on top of that just threw us more out of balance.

As the day went on, neither Edward nor Alice brought my birthday up again, and I began to relax a little.

We sat at our usual table for lunch.

A strange kind of truce existed at that table. The three of us—Edward, Alice, and I—sat on the extreme southern end of the table. Now that the "older" and somewhat scarier (in Emmett's case, certainly) Cullen siblings had graduated, Alice and Edward did not seem quite so intimidating, and we did not sit here alone. My other friends, Mike and Jessica (who were in the awkward post-breakup friendship phase), Angela and Ben (whose relationship had survived the summer), Eric, Conner, Tyler, and Lauren (though that last one didn't really count in the friend category) all sat at the same table, on the other side of an invisible line. That line dissolved on sunny days when Edward and Alice always skipped school, and then the conversation would swell out effortlessly to include me.

Edward and Alice didn't find this minor ostracism odd or hurtful the way I would have. They barely noticed it. People always felt strangely ill at ease with the Cullens, almost afraid for some reason they couldn't explain to themselves. I was a rare exception to that rule. Sometimes it bothered Edward how very comfortable I was with being close to him. He thought he was hazardous to my health—an opinion I rejected vehemently whenever he voiced it.

The afternoon passed quickly. School ended, and Edward walked me to my truck as he usually did. But this time, he held the passenger door open for me. Alice must have been taking his car home so that he could keep me from making a run for it.

I folded my arms and made no move to get out of the rain. "It's my birthday, don't I get to drive?"

"I'm pretending it's not your birthday, just as you wished."

"If it's not my birthday, then I don't have to go to your house tonight…"

"All right." He shut the passenger door and walked past me to open the driver's side. "Happy birthday."

"Shh," I shushed him halfheartedly. I climbed in the opened door, wishing he'd taken the other offer.

Edward played with the radio while I drove, shaking his head in disapproval.

"Your radio has horrible reception."

I frowned. I didn't like it when he picked on my truck. The truck was great—it had personality.

"You want a nice stereo? Drive your own car." I was so nervous about Alice's plans, on top of my already gloomy mood, that the words came out sharper than I'd meant them. I was hardly ever bad-tempered with Edward, and my tone made him press his lips together to keep from smiling.

When I parked in front of Charlie's house, he reached over to take my face in his hands. He handled me very carefully, pressing just the tips of his fingers softly against my temples, my cheekbones, my jawline. Like I was especially breakable. Which was exactly the case—compared with him, at least.

"You should be in a good mood, today of all days," he whispered. His sweet breath fanned across my face.

"And if I don't want to be in a good mood?" I asked, my breathing uneven.

His golden eyes smoldered. "Too bad."

My head was already spinning by the time he leaned closer and pressed his icy lips against mine. As he intended, no doubt, I forgot all about my worries, and concentrated on remembering how to inhale and exhale.

His mouth lingered on mine, cold and smooth and gentle, until I wrapped my arms around his neck and threw myself into the kiss with a little too much enthusiasm. I could feel his lips curve upward as he let go of my face and reached back to unlock my grip on him.

Edward had drawn many careful lines for our physical relationship, with the intent being to keep me alive. Though I respected the need for maintaining a safe distance between my skin and his razor-sharp, venom-coated teeth, I tended to forget about trivial things like that when he was kissing me.

"Be good, please," he breathed against my cheek. He pressed his lips gently to mine one more time and then pulled away, folding my arms across my stomach.

My pulse was thudding in my ears. I put one hand over my heart. It drummed hyperactively under my palm.

"Do you think I'll ever get better at this?" I wondered, mostly to myself. "That my heart might someday stop trying to jump out of my chest whenever you touch me?"

"I really hope not," he said, a bit smug.

I rolled my eyes. "Let's go watch the Capulets and Montagues hack each other up, all right?"

"Your wish, my command."

Edward sprawled across the couch while I started the movie, fast-forwarding through the opening credits.

When I perched on the edge of the sofa in front of him, he wrapped his arms around my waist and pulled me against his chest. It wasn't exactly as comfortable as a sofa cushion would be, what with his chest being hard and cold—and perfect—as an ice sculpture, but it was definitely preferable. He pulled the old afghan off the back of the couch and draped it over me so I wouldn't freeze beside his body.

"You know, I've never had much patience with Romeo," he commented as the movie started.

"What's wrong with Romeo?" I asked, a little offended. Romeo was one of my favorite fictional characters. Until I'd met Edward, I'd sort of had a thing for him.

"Well, first of all, he's in love with this Rosaline—don't you think it makes him seem a little fickle? And then, a few minutes after their wedding, he kills Juliet's cousin. That's not very brilliant. Mistake after mistake. Could he have destroyed his own happiness any more thoroughly?"

I sighed. "Do you want me to watch this alone?"

"No, I'll mostly be watching you, anyway." His fingers traced patterns across the skin of my arm, raising goose bumps. "Will you cry?"

"Probably," I admitted, "if I'm paying attention."

"I won't distract you then." But I felt his lips on my hair, and it was very distracting.

The movie eventually captured my interest, thanks in large part to Edward whispering Romeo's lines in my ear—his irresistible, velvet voice made the actor's voice sound weak and coarse by comparison. And I did cry, to his amusement, when Juliet woke and found her new husband dead.

"I'll admit, I do sort of envy him here," Edward said, drying the tears with a lock of my hair.

"She's very pretty."

He made a disgusted sound. "I don't envy him the girl—just the ease of the suicide," he clarified in a teasing tone. "You humans have it so easy! All you have to do is throw down one tiny vial of plant extracts…"

"What?" I gasped.

"It's something I had to think about once, and I knew from Carlisle's experience that it wouldn't be simple. I'm not even sure how many ways Carlisle tried to kill himself in the beginning… after he realized what he'd become…" His voice, which had grown serious, turned light again. "And he's clearly still in excellent health."

I twisted around so that I could read his face. "What are you talking about?" I demanded. "What do you mean, this something you had to think about once?"

"Last spring, when you were… nearly killed…" He paused to take a deep breath, snuggling to return to his teasing tone. "Of course I was trying to focus on finding you alive, but part of my mind was making contingency plans. Like I said, it's not as easy for me as it is for a human."

For one second, the memory of my last trip to Phoenix washed through my head and made me feel dizzy. I could see it all so clearly—the blinding sun, the heat waves coming off the concrete as I ran with desperate haste to find the sadistic vampire who wanted to torture me to death. James, waiting in the mirrored room with my mother as his hostage—or so I'd thought. I hadn't known it was all a ruse. Just as James hadn't known that Edward was racing to save me; Edward made it in time, but it had been a close one. Unthinkingly, my fingers traced the crescent-shaped scar on my hand that was always just a few degrees cooler than the rest of my skin.

I shook my head—as if I could shake away the bad memories—and tried to grasp what Edward meant. My stomach plunged uncomfortably. "Contingency plans?" I repeated.

"Well, I wasn't going to live without you." He rolled his eyes as if that fact were childishly obvious. "But I wasn't sure how to do it—I knew Emmett and Jasper would never help… so I was thinking maybe I would go to Italy and do something to provoke the Volturi."

I didn't want to believe he was serious, but his golden eyes were brooding, focused on something far away in the distance as he contemplated ways to end his own life. Abruptly, I was furious.

"What is a Volturi?" I demanded.

"The Volturi are a family," he explained, his eyes still remote. "A very old, very powerful family of our kind. They are the closest thing our world has to a royal family, I suppose. Carlisle lived with them briefly in his early years, in Italy, before he settled in America—do you remember the story?"

"Of course I remember."

I would never forget the first time I'd gone to his home, the huge white mansion buried deep in the forest beside the river, or

 My anger turned to horror. I took his marble face between my hands and held it very tightly.

"You must never, never, never think of anything like that again!" I said. "No matter what might ever happen to me, you are not allowed to hurt yourself!"

"I'll never put you in danger again, so it's a moot point."

"Put me in danger! I thought we'd established that all the bad luck is my fault?" I was getting angrier. "How dare you even think like that?" The idea of Edward ceasing to exist, even if I were dead, was impossiblypainful.

"What would you do, if the situation were reversed?" he asked.

"That's not the same thing."

He didn't seem to understand the difference. He chuckled.

"What if something did happen to you?" I blanched at the thought. "Would you want me to go off myself?"

A trace of pain touched his perfect features.

"I guess I see your point… a little," he admitted. "But what would I do without you?"

"Whatever you were doing before I came along and complicated your existence."

He sighed. "You make that sound so easy."

"It should be. I'm not really that interesting."

He was about to argue, but then he let it go. "Moot point," he reminded me. Abruptly, he pulled himself up into a more formal posture, shifting me to the side so that we were no longer touching.

"Charlie?" I guessed.

Edward smiled. After a moment, I heard the sound of the police cruiser pulling into the driveway. I reached out and took his hand firmly. My dad could deal with that much.

Charlie came in with a pizza box in his hands.

"Hey, kids." He grinned at me. "I thought you'd like a break from cooking and washing dishes for your birthday. Hungry?"

"Sure. Thanks, Dad."

Charlie didn't comment on Edward's apparent lack of appetite. He was used to Edward passing on dinner.

"Do you mind if I borrow Bella for the evening?" Edward asked when Charlie and I were done.

I looked at Charlie hopefully. Maybe he had some concept of birthdays as stay-at-home, family affairs—this was my first birthday with him, the first birthday since my mom, Renee, had remarried and gone to live in Florida, so I didn't know what he would expect.

"That's fine—the Mariners are playing the Sox tonight," Charlie explained, and my hope disappeared. "So I won't be any kind of company… Here." He scooped up the camera he'd gotten me on Renee's suggestion (because I would need pictures to fill up my scrap-book), and threw it to me.

He ought to know better than that—I'd always been coordinationally challenged. The camera glanced off the tip of my finger, and tumbled toward the floor. Edward snagged it before it could crash onto the linoleum.

"Nice save," Charlie noted. "If they're doing something fun at the Cullens' tonight, Bella, you should take some pictures. You know how your mother gets—she'll be wanting to see the pictures faster than you can take them."

"Good idea, Charlie," Edward said, handing me the camera.

I turned the camera on Edward, and snapped the first picture. "It works."

"That's good. Hey, say hi to Alice for me. She hasn't been over in a while." Charlie's mouth pulled down at one corner.

"It's been three days, Dad," I reminded him. Charlie was crazy about Alice. He'd become attached last spring when she'd helped me through my awkward convalescence; Charlie would be fore'ter grateful to her for saving him from the horror of an almost-adult daughter who needed help showering. "I'll tell her."

"Okay. You kids have fun tonight." It was clearly a dismissal. Charlie was already edging toward the living room and the TV.

Edward smiled, triumphant, and took my hand to pull me from the kitchen.

When we got to the truck, he opened the passenger door for me again, and this time I didn't argue. I still had a hard time finding the obscure turnoff to his house in the dark.

Edward drove north through Forks, visibly chafing at the speed limit enforced by my prehistoric Chevy. The engine groaned even louder than usual as he pushed it over fifty.

"Take it easy," I warned him.

"You know what you would love? A nice little Audi coupe. Very quiet, lots of power…"

"There's nothing wrong with my truck. And speaking of expensive nonessentials, if you know what's good for you, you didn't spend any money on birthday presents."

"Not a dime," he said virtuously.

"Good."

"Can you do me a favor?"

"That depends on what it is."

He sighed, his lovely face serious. "Bella, the last real birthday any of us had was Emmett in 1935. Cut us a little slack, and don't be too difficult tonight. They're all very excited."

It always startled me a little when he brought up things like that. "Fine, I'll behave."

"I probably should warn you…"

"Please do."

"When I say they're all excited… I do mean all of them."

"Everyone?" I choked. "I thought Emmett and Rosalie were in Africa." The rest of Forks was under the impression that the older Cullens had gone off to college this year, to Dartmouth, but I knew better.

"Emmett wanted to be here."

"But… Rosalie?"

"I know, Bella. Don't worry, she'll be on her best behavior."

I didn't answer. Like I could just not worry, that easy. Unlike Alice, Edward's other "adopted" sister, the golden blond and exquisite Rosalie, didn't like me much. Actually, the feeling was a little bit stronger than just dislike. As far as Rosalie was concerned, I was an unwelcome intruder into her family's secret life.

I felt horribly guilty about the present situation, guessing that Rosalie and Emmett's prolonged absence was my fault, even as I furtively enjoyed not having to see her Emmett, Edward's playful bear of a brother, I did miss. He was in many ways just like the big brother I'd always wanted… only much, much more terrifying.

Edward decided to change the subject. "So, if you won't let me get you the Audi, isn't there anything that you'd like for your birthday?"

The words came out in a whisper. "You know what I want."

A deep frown carved creases into his marble forehead. He obviously wished he'd stuck to the subject of Rosalie.

It felt like we'd had this argument a lot today.

"Not tonight, Bella. Please."

"Well, maybe Alice will give me what I want."

Edward growled—a deep, menacing sound. "This isn't going to be your last birthday, Bella," he vowed.

"That's not fair!"

I thought I heard his teeth clench together.

We were pulling up to the house now. Bright light shined from every window on the first two floors. A long line of glowing Japanese lanterns hung from the porch eaves, reflecting a soft radiance on the huge cedars that surrounded the house. Big bowls of flowers—pink roses—lined the wide stairs up to the front doors.

I moaned.

Edward took a few deep breaths to calm himself. "This is a party," he reminded me. "Try to be a good sport."

"Sure," I muttered.

He came around to get my door, and offered me his hand.

"I have a question."

He waited warily.

"If I develop this film," I said, toying with the camera in my hands, "will you show up in the picture?"

Edward started laughing. He helped me out of the car, pulled me up the stairs, and was still laughing as he opened the door for me.

They were all waiting in the huge white living room; when I walked through the door, they greeted me with a loud chorus of "Happy birthday, Bella!" while I blushed and looked down. Alice, I assumed, had covered every flat surface with pink candles and dozens of crystal bowls filled with hundreds of roses. There was a table with a white cloth draped over it next to Edward's grand piano, holding a pink birthday cake, more roses, a stack of glass plates, and a small pile of silver-wrapped presents.

It was a hundred times worse than I'd imagined.

Edward, sensing my distress, wrapped an encouraging arm around my waist and kissed the top of my head.

Edward's parents, Carlisle and Esme—impossibly youthful and lovely as ever—were the closest to the door. Esme hugged me carefully, her soft, caramel-colored hair brushing against my cheek as she kissed my forehead, and then Carlisle put his arm around my shoulders.

"Sorry about this, Bella," he stage-whispered. "We couldn't rein Alice in."

Rosalie and Emmett stood behind them. Rosalie didn't smile, but at least she didn't glare. Emmett's face was stretched into a huge grin. It had been months since I'd seen them; I'd forgotten how gloriously beautiful Rosalie was—it almost hurt to look at her. And had Emmett always been so… big?

"You haven't changed at all," Emmett said with mock disappointment. "I expected a perceptible difference, but here you are, red-faced just like always."

"Thanks a lot, Emmett," I said, blushing deeper.

He laughed, "I have to step out for a second"—he paused to wink conspicuously at Alice—"Don't do anything funny while I'm gone."

"I'lltry."

Alice let go of Jasper's hand and skipped forward, all her teeth sparkling in the bright light. Jasper smiled, too, but kept his distance. He leaned, long and blond, against the post at the foot of the stairs. During the days we'd had to spend cooped up together in Phoenix, I'd thought he'd gotten over his aversion to me. But he'd gone back to exactly how he'd acted before—avoiding me as much as possible—the moment he was free from that temporary obligation to protect me. I knew it wasn't personal, just a precaution, and I tried not to be overly sensitive about it. Jasper had more trouble sticking to the Cullens' diet than the rest of them; the scent of human blood was much harder for him to resist than the others—he hadn't been trying as long.

"Time to open presents," Alice declared. She put her cool hand under my elbow and towed me to the

table with the cake and the shiny packages.

I put on my best martyr face. "Alice, I know I told you I didn't want anything—"

"But I didn't listen," she interrupted, smug. "Open it." She took the camera from my hands and replaced it with a big, square silver box.

The box was so light that it felt empty. The tag on top said that it was from Emmett, Rosalie, and Jasper. Selfconsciously, I tore the paper off and then stared at the box it concealed.

It was something electrical, with lots of numbers in the name. I opened the box, hoping for further illumination. But the box was empty.

"Um… thanks."

Rosalie actually cracked a smile. Jasper laughed. "It's a stereo for your truck," he explained. "Emmett's installing it right now so that you can't return it."

Alice was always one step ahead of me. "Thanks, Jasper, Rosalie," I told them, grinning as I remembered Edward's complaints about my radio this afternoon—all a setup, apparently. "Thanks, Emmett!" I called more loudly.

I heard his booming laugh from my truck, and I couldn't help laughing, too.

"Open mine and Edward's next," Alice said, so excited her voice was a high-pitched trill. She held a small, flat square in her hand.

I turned to give Edward a basilisk glare. "You promised."

Before he could answer, Emmett bounded through the door. "Just in time!" he crowed. He pushed in behind Jasper, who had also drifted closer than usual to get a good look.

"I didn't spend a dime," Edward assured me. He brushed a strand of hair from my face, leaving my skin tingling from his touch.

I inhaled deeply and turned to Alice. "Give it to me," I sighed.

Emmett chuckled with delight.

I took the little package, rolling my eyes at Edward while I stuck my finger under the edge of the paper and jerked it

 "Emmett, Rose, get Jasper outside."

Unsmiling for once, Emmett nodded. "Come on, Jasper."

Jasper struggled against Emmett's unbreakable grasp, twisting around, reaching toward his brother with his bared teeth, his eyes still past reason.

Edward's face was whiter than bone as he wheeled to crouch over me, taking a clearly defensive position. A low warning growl slid from between his clenched teeth. I could tell that he wasn't breathing.

Rosalie, her divine face strangely smug, stepped in front of Jasper—keeping a careful distance from his teeth—and helped Emmett wrestle him through the glass door that Esme held open, one hand pressed over her mouth and nose.

Esme's heart-shaped face was ashamed. "I'm so sorry, Bella," she cried as she followed the others into the yard.

"Let me by, Edward," Carlisle murmured.

A second passed, and then Edward nodded slowly and relaxed his stance.

Carlisle knelt beside me, leaning close to examine my arm. I could feel the shock frozen on my face, and I tried to compose it.

"Here, Carlisle," Alice said, handing him a towel.

He shook his head. "Too much glass in the wound." He reached over and ripped a long, thin scrap from the bottom of the white tablecloth. He twisted it around my arm above the elbow to form a tourniquet. The smell of the blood was making me dizzy. My ears rang.

"Bella," Carlisle said softly. "Do you want me to drive you to the hospital, or would you like me to take care of it here?"

"Here, please," I whispered. If he took me to the hospital, there would be no way to keep this from Charlie.

"I'll get your bag," Alice said.

"Let's take her to the kitchen table," Carlisle said to Edward.

Edward lifted me effortlessly, while Carlisle kept the pressure steady on my arm.

"How are you doing, Bella?" Carlisle asked.

"I'm fine." My voice was reasonably steady, which pleased me.

Edward's face was like stone.

Alice was there. Carlisle's black bag was already on the table, a small but brilliant desk light plugged into the wall. Edward sat me gently into a chair, and Carlisle pulled up another. He went to work at once.

Edward stood over me, still protective, still not breathing.

"Just go, Edward," I sighed.

"I can handle it," he insisted. But his jaw was rigid; his eyes burned with the intensity of the thirst he fought, so much worse for him than it was for the others.

"You don't need to be a hero," I said. "Carlisle can fix me up without your help. Get some fresh air."

I winced as Carlisle did something to my arm that stung.

"I'll stay," he said.

"Why are you so masochistic?" I mumbled.

Carlisle decided to intercede. "Edward, you may as well go find Jasper before he gets too far. I'm sure he's upset with himself, and I doubt he'll listen to anyone but you right now."

"Yes," I eagerly agreed. "Go find Jasper."

"You might as well do something useful," Alice added.

Edward's eyes narrowed as we ganged up on him, but, finally, he nodded once and sprinted smoothly through the kitchen's back door. I was sure he hadn't taken a breath since I'd sliced my finger.

A numb, dead feeling was spreading through my arm.

Though it erased the sting, it reminded me of the gash, and I watched Carlisle's face carefully to distract me from what his hands were doing. His hair gleamed gold in the bright light as he bent over my arm. I could feel the faint stirrings of unease in the pit of my stomach, but I was determined not to let my usual squeamishness get the best of me. There was no pain now, just a gentle tugging sensation that I tried to ignore. No reason to get sick like a baby.

If she hadn't been in my line of sight, I wouldn't have noticed Alice give up and steal out of the room. With a tiny, apologetic smile on her lips, she disappeared through the kitchen doorway.

"Well, that's everyone," I sighed. "I can clear a room, at least."

"It's not your fault," Carlisle comforted me with a chuckle. "It could happen to anyone."

"Could" I repeated. "But it usually just happens to me."

He laughed again.

His relaxed calm was only more amazing set in direct contrast with everyone else's reaction. I couldn't find any trace of anxiety in his face. He worked with quick, sure movements. The only sound besides our quiet breathing was the soft plink, plink as the tiny fragments of glass dropped one by one to the table.

"How can you do this?" I demanded. "Even Alice and Esme…" I trailed off, shaking my head in wonder. Though the rest of them had given up the traditional diet of vampires just as absolutely as Carlisle had, he was the only one who could bear the smell of my blood without suffering from the intense temptation. Clearly, this was much more difficult than he made it seem.

"Years and years of practice," he told me. "I barely notice the scent anymore."

"Do you think it would be harder if you took a vacation from the hospital for a long time. And weren't around any blood?"

"Maybe." He shrugged his shoulders, but his hands remained steady. "I've never felt the need for an extended holiday." He flashed a brilliant smile in my direction. "I enjoy my work too much."

Plink, plink, plink. I was surprised at how much glass there seemed to be in my arm. I was tempted to glance at the growing pile, just to check the size, but I knew that idea would not be helpful to my no-vomiting strategy.

"What is it that you enjoy?" I wondered. It didn't make sense to me—the years of struggle and self-denial he must have spent to get to the point where he could endure this so easily. Besides, I wanted to keep him talking; the conversation kept my mind off the queasy feeling in my stomach.

His dark eyes were calm and thoughtful as he answered. "Hmm. What I enjoy the very most is when my… enhanced abilities let me save someone who would otherwise have been lost. It's pleasant knowing that, thanks to what I can do, some people's lives are better because I exist. Even the sense of smell is a useful diagnostic tool at times." One side of his mouth pulled up in half a smile.

I mulled that over while he poked around, making sure all the glass splinters were gone. Then he rummaged in his bag for new tools, and I tried not to picture a needle and thread.

"You try very hard to make up for something that was never your fault," I suggested while a new kind of tugging started at the edges of my skin. "What I mean is, it's not like you asked for this. You didn't choose this kind of life, and yet you have to work so hard to be good."

"I don't know that I'm making up for anything," he disagreed lightly. "Like everything in life, I just had to decide what to do with what I was given."

"That makes it sound too easy."

He examined my arm again. "There," he said, snipping a thread. "All done." He wiped an oversized Q-tip, dripping with some syrup-colored liquid, thoroughly across the operation site. The smell was strange; it made my head spin. The syrup stained my skin.

"In the beginning, though," I pressed while he taped another long piece of gauze securely in place, sealing it to my skin. "Why did you even think to try a different way than the obvious one?"

His lips turned up in a private smile. "Hasn't Edward told you this story?"

"Yes. But I'm trying to understand what you were thinking…"

His face was suddenly serious again, and I wondered if his thoughts had gone to the same place that mine had. Wondering what I would be thinking when—I refused to think if—it was me.

"You know my father was a clergyman," he mused as he cleaned the table carefully, rubbing everything down with wet gauze, and then doing it again. The smell of alcohol burned in my nose. "He had a rather harsh view of the world, which I was already beginning to question before the time that I changed." Carlisle put all the dirty gauze and the glass slivers into an empty crystal bowl. I didn't understand what he was doing, even when he lit the match. Then he threw it onto the alcohol-soaked fibers, and the sudden blaze made me jump.

"Sorry," he apologized. "That ought to do it… So I didn't agree with my father's particular brand of faith. But never, in the nearly four hundred years now since I was born, have I ever seen anything to make me doubt whether God exists in some form or the other. Not even the reflection in the mirror."

I pretended to examine the dressing on my arm to hide my surprise at the direction our conversation had taken. Religion was the last thing I expected, all things considered. My own life was fairly devoid of belief. Charlie considered himself a Lutheran, because that's what his parents had been, but Sundays he worshipped by the river with a fishing pole in his hand. Renee tried out a church now and then, but, much like her brief affairs with tennis, pottery, yoga, and French classes, she moved on by the time I was aware of her newest fad.

"I'm sure all this sounds a little bizarre, coming from a vampire." He grinned, knowing how their casual use of that word never failed to shock me. "But I'm hoping that there is still a point to this life, even for us. It's a long shot, I'll admit," he continued in an offhand voice. "By all accounts, we're damned regardless. But I hope, maybe foolishly, that we'll get some measure of credit for trying."

"I don't think that's foolish," I mumbled. I couldn't imagine anyone, deity included, who wouldn't be impressed by Carlisle. Besides, the only kind of heaven I could appreciate would have to include Edward. "And I don't think anyone else would, either."

"Actually, you're the very first one to agree with me."

"The rest of them don't feel the same?" I asked, surprised, thinking of only one person in particular.

Carlisle guessed the direction of my thoughts again. "Edward's with me up to a point. God and heaven exist… and so does hell. But he doesn't believe there is an afterlife for our kind." Carlisle's voice was very soft; he stared out the big window over the sink, into the darkness. "You see, he thinks we've lost our souls."

I immediately thought of Edward's words this afternoon: unless you want to die—or whatever it is that we do. The lightbulb flicked on over my head.

"That's the real problem, isn't it?" I guessed. "That's why he's being so difficult about me."

Carlisle spoke slowly. "I look at my… son. His strength, his goodness, the brightness that shines out of him—and it only fuels that hope, that faith, more than ever. How could there not be more for one such as Edward?"

I nodded in fervent agreement.

"But if I believed as he does…" He looked down at me with unfathomable eyes. "If you believed as he did. Could you take away his soul?"

The way he phrased the question thwarted my answer.

If he'd asked me whether I would risk my soul for Edward, the reply would be obvious. But would I risk Edward's soul? I pursed my lips unhappily. That wasn't a fair exchange.

"You see the problem."

I shook my head, aware of the stubborn set of my chin.

Carlisle sighed.

"It's my choice," I insisted.

"It's his, too." He held up his hand when he could see that I was about to argue. "Whether
 "It's not yours, either."

I looked away from his wise, beautiful eyes. I couldn't agree with that.

Carlisle offered me his hand and helped me up from the table. I followed him out into the main room. Esme had come back; she was mopping the floor where I'd fallen—with straight bleach from the smell of it.

"Esme, let me do that." I could feel that my face was bright red again.

"I'm already done." She smiled up at me. "How do you feel?"

"I'm fine," I assured her. "Carlisle sews faster than any other doctor I've had."

They both chuckled.

Alice and Edward came in the back doors. Alice hurried to my side, but Edward hung back, his face indecipherable.

"C'mon," Alice said. "I'll get you something less macabre to wear."

She found me a shirt of Esme's that was close to the same color mine had been. Charlie wouldn't notice, I was sure. The long white bandage on my arm didn't look nearly as serious when I was no longer spattered in gore. Charlie was never surprised to see me bandaged.

"Alice," I whispered as she headed back to the door.

"Yes?" She kept her voice low, too, and looked at me curiously, her head cocked to the side.

"How bad is it?" I couldn't be sure if my whispering was a wasted effort. Even though we were upstairs, with the door closed, perhaps he could hear me.

Her face tensed. "I'm not sure yet."

"How's Jasper?"

She sighed. "He's very unhappy with himself. It's all so much more of challenge for him, and he hates feeling weak."

"It's not his fault. You'll tell him that I'm not mad at him, not at all, won't you?"

"Of course."

Edward was waiting for me by the front door. As I got to the bottom of the staircase, he held it open without a word.

"Take your things!" Alice cried as I walked warily toward Edward. She scooped up the two packages, one half-opened, and my camera from under the piano, and pressed them into my good arm. "You can thank me later, when you've opened them."

Esme and Carlisle both said a quiet goodnight. I could see them stealing quick glances at their impassive son, much like I was.

It was a relief to be outside; I hurried past the lanterns and the roses, now unwelcome reminders. Edward kept pace with me silently. He opened the passenget side for me, and I climbed in without

complaint.

On the dashboard was a big red ribbon, stuck to the new stereo. I pulled it off, throwing it to the floor. As Edward slid into the other side, I kicked the ribbon under my seat.

He didn't look at me or the stereo. Neither of us switched it on, and the silence was somehow intensified by the sudden thunder of the engine. He drove too fast down the dark, serpentine lane.

The silence was making me insane.

"Say something," I finally begged as he turned onto the freeway.

"What do you want me to say?" he asked in a detached voice.

I cringed at his remoteness. 'Tell me you forgive me."

That brought a flicker of life to his face—a flicker of anger. "Forgive you? For what?"

"If I'd been more careful, nothing would have happened."

"Bella, you gave yourself a paper cut—that hardly deserves the death penalty."

"It's still my fault."

My words opened up the floodgate.

"Your fault? If you'd cut yourself at Mike Newton's house, with Jessica there and Angela and your other normal friends, the worst that could possibly have happened would be what? Maybe they couldn't find you a bandage? If you'd tripped and knocked over a pile of glass plates on your own—without someone throwing you into them—even then, what's the worst? You'd get blood on the seats when they drove you to the emergency room? Mike Newton could have held your hand while they stitched you up—and he wouldn't be righting the urge to kill you the whole time he was there. Don't try to take any of this on yourself, Bella. It will only make me more disgusted with myself."

"How the hell did Mike Newton end up in this conversation?" I demanded.

"Mike Newton ended up in this conversation because Mike Newton would be a hell of a lot healthier for you to be with," he growled.

"I'd rather die than be with Mike Newton," I protested. "I'd rather die than be with anyone but you."

"Don't be melodramatic, please."

"Well then, don't you be ridiculous."

He didn't answer. He glared through the windshield, his expression black.

I racked my brain for some way to salvage the evening. When we pulled up in front of my house, I still hadn't come up with anything.

He killed the engine, but his hands stayed clenched around the steering wheel.

"Will you stay tonight?" I asked.

"I should go home."

The last thing I wanted was for him to go wallow in remorse.

"For my birthday," I pressed.

"You can't have it both ways—either you want people to ignore your birthday or you don't. One or the other."

His voice was stern, but not .is serious as before. I breathed a silent sigh of relief.

"Okay. I've decided that I don't want you to ignore my birthday. I'll see you upstairs."

I hopped out, reaching back in for my packages. He frowned.

"You don't have to take those."

"I want them," I responded automatically, and then wondered if he was using reverse psychology.

"No, you don't. Carlisle and Esme spent money on you."

"I'll live." I tucked the presents awkwardly under my good arm and slammed the door behind me. He was out of the truck and by my side in less than a second.

"Let me carry them, at least." he said as he took them away. "I'll be in your room."

I smiled. "Thanks."

"Happy birthday," he sighed, and leaned down to touch his lips to mine.

I reached up on my toes to make the kiss last longer when he pulled away. He smiled my favorite crooked smile, and then he disappeared into the darkness.

The game was still on; as soon as I walked through the front door I could hear the announcer rambling over the babble of the crowd.

"Bell?" Charlie called.

"Hey, Dad," I said as I came around the corner. I held my arm close to my side. The slight pressure burned, and I wrinkled my nose. The anesthetic was apparently losing its effectiveness.

"How was it?" Charlie lounged across the sofa with his bare feet propped up on the arm. What was left of his curly brown hair was crushed flat on one side.

"Alice went overboard. Flowers, cake, candles, presents—the whole bit."

"What did they get you?"

"A stereo for my truck." And various unknowns.

"Wow."

"Yeah," I agreed. "Well, I'm calling it a night."

"I'll see you in the morning."

I waved. "See ya."

"What happened to your arm?"

I flushed and cursed silently. "I tripped. It's nothing."

"Bella," he sighed, shaking his head.

"Goodnight, Dad."

I hurried up to the bathroom, where I kept my pajamas for just such nights as these. I shrugged into the matching tank top and cotton pants that I'd gotten to replace the holey sweats I used to wear to bed, wincing as the movement pulled at the stitches. I washed my face one-handed, brushed my teeth, and then skipped to my room.

He was sitting in the center of my bed, toying idly with one of the silver boxes.

"Hi," he said. His voice was sad. He was wallowing.

I went to the bed, pushed the presents out of his hands, and climbed into his lap.

"Hi." I snuggled into his stone chest. "Can I open my presents now?"

"Where did the enthusiasm come from?" he wondered.

"You made me curious."

I picked up the long flat rectangle that must have been from Carlisle and Esme.

"Allow me," he suggested. He took the gift from my hand and tore the silver paper off with one fluid movement. He handed the rectangular white box back to me.

"Are you sure I can handle lifting the lid?" I muttered, but he ignored me.

Inside the box was a long thick piece of paper with an overwhelming amount of fine print. It took me a minute to get the gist of the information.

"We're going to Jacksonville?" And I was excited, in spite of myself. It was a voucher for plane tickets, for both me and Edward.

"That's the idea."

"I can't believe it. Renee is going to flip! You don't mind, though, do you? It's sunny, you'll have to stay inside all day."

"I think I can handle it," he said, and then frowned. "If I'd had any idea that you could respond to a gift this appropriately, I would have made you open it in front of Carlisle and Esme. I thought you'd complain."

"Well, of course it's too much. But I get to take you with me!"

He chuckled. "Now I wish I'd spent money on your present. I didn't realize that you were capable of being reasonable."

I set the tickets aside and reached for his present, my curiosity rekindled. He took it from me and unwrapped it like the first one.

He handed back a clear CD jewel case, with a blank silver CD inside.

"What is it?" I asked, perplexed.

He didn't say anything; he took the CD and reached around me to put it in the CD player on the bedside table. He hit play, and we waited in silence. Then the music began.

I listened, speechless and wide-eyed. I knew he was waiting for my reaction, but I couldn't talk. Tears welled up, and I reached up to wipe them away before they could spill over.

"Does your arm hurt?" he asked anxiously.

"No, it's not my arm. It's beautiful, Edward. You couldn't have given me anything I would love more. I can't believe it." I shut up, so I could listen.

It was his music, his compositions. The first piece on the CD was my lullaby.

"I didn't think you would let me get a piano so I could play for you here," he explained.

"You're right."

"How does your arm feel?"

"Just fine." Actually, it was starting to blaze under the bandage. I wanted ice. I would have settled for his hand, but that would have given me away.

"I'll get you some Tylenol."

"I don't need anything," I protested, but he slid me off his lap and headed for the door.

"Charlie," I hissed. Charlie wasn't exactly aware that Edward frequently stayed over. In fact, he would have a stroke if that fact were brought to his attention. But I didn't feel too guilty for deceiving him It wasn't as if we were up to anything he wouldn't want me to be up to. Edward and his rules…

"He won't catch me," Edward promised as he disappeared silently out the door and returned, catching the door before it had swung back to touch the frame. He had the glass from the bathroom and the bottle of pills in one hand.

I took the pills he handed me without arguing—I knew I would lose the argument And my arm really was starting to bother me.

My lullaby continued, soft and lovely, in the background.

"It's late," Edward noted. He scooped me up off the bed with one arm, and pulled the cover back with the other. He put me down with my head on my pillow and tucked the quilt around me. He lay down next to me—on top of the blanket so I wouldn't get chilled—and put his arm over me.

I leaned my head against his shoulder and sighed happily.

"Thanks again," I whispered.

"You're welcome."

It was quiet for a long moment as I listened to my lullaby drift to No one is staring at you, I promised myself. No one is staring at you. No one is 
staring at you. 
But, because I couldn’t lie convincingly even to myself, I had to check. 
As I sat waiting for one of the three traffic lights in town to turn green, I peeked 
to the right—in her minivan, Mrs. Weber had turned her whole torso in my 
direction. Her eyes bored into mine, and I flinched back, wondering why she 
didn’t drop her gaze or look ashamed. It was still considered rude to stare at 
people, wasn’t it? Didn’t that apply to me anymore? 
Then I remembered that these windows were so darkly tinted that she probably 
had no idea if it was even me in here, let alone that I’d caught her looking. I tried 
to take some comfort in the fact that she wasn’t really staring at me, just the car. 
My car. Sigh. 
I glanced to the left and groaned. Two pedestrians were frozen on the sidewalk, 
missing their chance to cross as they stared. Behind them, Mr. Marshall was 
gawking through the plate-glass window of his little souvenir shop. At least he 
didn’t have his nose pressed up against the glass. Yet. 
The light turned green and, in my hurry to escape, I stomped on the gas pedal 
without thinking—the normal way I would have punched it to get my ancient 
Chevy truck moving. 
Engine snarling like a hunting panther, the car jolted forward so fast that my 
body slammed into the black leather seat and my stomach flattened against my 
spine. 
“Arg!” I gasped as I fumbled for the brake. Keeping my head, I merely tapped the 
pedal. The car lurched to an absolute standstill anyway. 
I couldn’t bear to look around at the reaction. If there had been any doubt as to 
who was driving this car before, it was gone now. With the toe of my shoe, I 
gently nudged the gas pedal down one half millimeter, and the car shot forward 
again. 
I managed to reach my goal, the gas station. If I hadn’t been running on vapors, I 
wouldn’t have come into town at all. I was going without a lot of things these 
days, like Pop-Tarts and shoelaces, to avoid spending time in public. 
Moving as if I were in a race, I got the hatch open, the cap off, the card scanned, 
and the nozzle in the tank within seconds. Of course, there was nothing I could do to make the numbers on the gauge pick up the pace. They ticked by sluggishly, 
almost as if they were doing it just to annoy me. 
It wasn’t bright out—a typical drizzly day in Forks, Washington—but I still felt 
like a spotlight was trained on me, drawing attention to the delicate ring on my 
left hand. At times like this, sensing the eyes on my back, it felt as if the ring were 
pulsing like a neon sign: Look at me, look at me. 
It was stupid to be so self-conscious, and I knew that. Besides my dad and mom, 
did it really matter what people were saying about my engagement? About my 
new car? About my mysterious acceptance into an Ivy League college? About the 
shiny black credit card that felt red-hot in my back pocket right now? 
“Yeah, who cares what they think,” I muttered under my breath. 
“Um, miss?” a man’s voice called. 
I turned, and then wished I hadn’t. 
Two men stood beside a fancy SUV with brand-new kayaks tied to the top. 
Neither of them was looking at me; they both were staring at the car. 
Personally, I didn’t get it. But then, I was just proud I could distinguish between 
the symbols for Toyota, Ford, and Chevy. This car was glossy black, sleek, and 
pretty, but it was still just a car to me. 
“I’m sorry to bother you, but could you tell me what kind of car you’re driving?” 
the tall one asked. 
“Um, a Mercedes, right?” 
“Yes,” the man said politely while his shorter friend rolled his eyes at my answer. 
“I know. But I was wondering, is that… are you driving a Mercedes Guardian?” 
The man said the name with reverence. I had a feeling this guy would get along 
well with Edward Cullen, my… my fiancé (there really was no getting around that 
truth with the wedding just days away). “They aren’t supposed to be available in 
Europe yet,” the man went on, “let alone here.” 
While his eyes traced the contours of my car—it didn’t look much different from 
any other Mercedes sedan to me, but what did I know?—I briefly contemplated 
my issues with words like fiancé, wedding, husband, etc. 
I just couldn’t put it together in my head. 
On the one hand, I had been raised to cringe at the very thought of poofy white 
dresses and bouquets. But more than that, I just couldn’t reconcile a staid, 
respectable, dull concept like husband with my concept of Edward. It was like casting an archangel as an accountant; I couldn’t visualize him in any 
commonplace role. 
Like always, as soon as I started thinking about Edward I was caught up in a dizzy 
spin of fantasies. The stranger had to clear his throat to get my attention; he was 
still waiting for an answer about the car’s make and model. 
“I don’t know,” I told him honestly. 
“Do you mind if I take a picture with it?” 
It took me a second to process that. “Really? You want to take a picture with the 
car?” 
“Sure—nobody is going to believe me if I don’t get proof.” 
“Um. Okay. Fine.” 
I swiftly put away the nozzle and crept into the front seat to hide while the 
enthusiast dug a huge professional-looking camera out of his backpack. He and 
his friend took turns posing by the hood, and then they went to take pictures at 
the back end. 
“I miss my truck,” I whimpered to myself. 
Very, very convenient—too convenient—that my truck would wheeze its last 
wheeze just weeks after Edward and I had agreed to our lopsided compromise, 
one detail of which was that he be allowed to replace my truck when it passed on. 
Edward swore it was only to be expected; my truck had lived a long, full life and 
then expired of natural causes. According to him. And, of course, I had no way to 
verify his story or to try to raise my truck from the dead on my own. My favorite 
mechanic— 
I stopped that thought cold, refusing to let it come to a conclusion. Instead, I 
listened to the men’s voices outside, muted by the car walls. 
“. . . went at it with a flamethrower in the online video. Didn’t even pucker the 
paint.” 
“Of course not. You could roll a tank over this baby. Not much of a market for one 
over here. Designed for Middle East diplomats, arms dealers, and drug lords 
mostly.” 
“Think she’s something?” the short one asked in a softer voice. I ducked my head, 
cheeks flaming. “Huh,” the tall one said. “Maybe. Can’t imagine what you’d need missile-proof 
glass and four thousand pounds of body armor for around here. Must be headed 
somewhere more hazardous.” 
Body armor. Four thousand pounds of body armor. And missile-proof glass? 
Nice. What had happened to good old-fashioned bulletproof? 
Well, at least this made some sense—if you had a twisted sense of humor. 
It wasn’t like I hadn’t expected Edward to take advantage of our deal, to weight it 
on his side so that he could give so much more than he would receive. I’d agreed 
that he could replace my truck when it needed replacing, not expecting that 
moment to come quite so soon, of course. When I’d been forced to admit that the 
truck had become no more than a still-life tribute to classic Chevys on my curb, I 
knew his idea of a replacement was probably going to embarrass me. Make me 
the focus of stares and whispers. I’d been right about that part. But even in my 
darkest imaginings I had not foreseen that he would get me two cars. 
The “before” car and the “after” car, he’d explained when I’d flipped out. 
This was just the “before” car. He’d told me it was a loaner and promised that he 
was returning it after the wedding. It all had made absolutely no sense to me. 
Until now. 
Ha ha. Because I was so fragilely human, so accident-prone, so much a victim to 
my own dangerous bad luck, apparently I needed a tank-resistant car to keep me 
safe. Hilarious. I was sure he and his brothers had enjoyed the joke quite a bit 
behind my back. 
Or maybe, just maybe, a small voice whispered in my head, it’s not a joke, silly. 
Maybe he’s really that worried about you. This wouldn’t be the first time he’s 
gone a little overboard trying to protect you. 
I sighed. 
I hadn’t seen the “after” car yet. It was hidden under a sheet in the deepest corner 
of the Cullens’ garage. I knew most people would have peeked by now, but I really 
didn’t want to know. 
Probably no body armor on that car—because I wouldn’t need it after the 
honeymoon. Virtual indestructibility was just one of the many perks I was 
looking forward to. The best parts about being a Cullen were not expensive cars 
and impressive credit cards. 
“Hey,” the tall man called, cupping his hands to the glass in an effort to peer in. 
“We’re done now. Thanks a lot!” “Hello?” Seth Clearwater answered, and I sighed in relief. I was way too chicken 
to speak to his older sister, Leah. The phrase “bite my head off” was not entirely a 
figure of speech when it came to Leah. 
“Hey, Seth, it’s Bella.” 
“Oh, hiya, Bella! How are you?” 
Choked up. Desperate for reassurance. “Fine.” 
“Calling for an update?” 
“You’re psychic.” 
“Not hardly. I’m no Alice—you’re just predictable,” he joked. Among the Quileute 
pack down at La Push, only Seth was comfortable even mentioning the Cullens by 
name, let alone joking about things like my nearly omniscient sister-in-law-to-be. 
“I know I am.” I hesitated for a minute. “How is he?” 
Seth sighed. “Same as ever. He won’t talk, though we know he hears us. He’s 
trying not to think human, you know. Just going with his instincts.” 
“Do you know where he is now?” 
“Somewhere in northern Canada. I can’t tell you which province. He doesn’t pay 
much attention to state lines.” 
“Any hint that he might . . .” 
“He’s not coming home, Bella. Sorry.” 
I swallowed. “S’okay, Seth. I knew before I asked. I just can’t help wishing.” 
“Yeah. We all feel the same way.” 
“Thanks for putting up with me, Seth. I know the others must give you a hard 
time.” 
“They’re not your hugest fans,” he agreed cheerfully. “Kind of lame, I think. Jacob 
made his choices, you made yours. Jake doesn’t like their attitude about it. 
’Course, he isn’t super thrilled that you’re checking up on him, either.” 
I gasped. “I thought he wasn’t talking to you?” 
“He can’t hide everything from us, hard as he’s trying.”
So Jacob knew I was worried. I wasn’t sure how I felt about that. Well, at least he 
knew I hadn’t skipped off into the sunset and forgotten him completely. He might 
have imagined me capable of that. 
“I guess I’ll see you at the… wedding,” I said, forcing the word out through my 
teeth. 
“Yeah, me and my mom will be there. It was cool of you to ask us.” 
I smiled at the enthusiasm in his voice. Though inviting the Clearwaters had been 
Edward’s idea, I was glad he’d thought of it. Having Seth there would be nice—a 
link, however tenuous, to my missing best man. “It wouldn’t be the same without 
you.” 
“Tell Edward I said
 
 I walked slowly through the light rain, remembering the night we’d told him. . . . 
As the sound of Charlie’s cruiser announced his return, the ring suddenly 
weighed a hundred pounds on my finger. I wanted to shove my left hand in a 
pocket, or maybe sit on it, but Edward’s cool, firm grasp kept it front and center. 
“Stop fidgeting, Bella. Please try to remember that you’re not confessing to a 
murder here.” 
“Easy for you to say.”
I listened to the ominous sound of my father’s boots clomping up the sidewalk. 
The key rattled in the already open door. The sound reminded me of that part of 
the horror movie when the victim realizes she’s forgotten to lock her deadbolt. 
“Calm down, Bella,” Edward whispered, listening to the acceleration of my heart. 
The door slammed against the wall, and I flinched like I’d been Tasered. 
“Hey, Charlie,” Edward called, entirely relaxed. 
“No!” I protested under my breath. 
“What?” Edward whispered back. 
“Wait till he hangs his gun up!” 
Edward chuckled and ran his free hand through his tousled bronze hair. 
Charlie came around the corner, still in his uniform, still armed, and tried not to 
make a face when he spied us sitting together on the loveseat. Lately, he’d been 
putting forth a lot of effort to like Edward more. Of course, this revelation was 
sure to end that effort immediately. 
“Hey, kids. What’s up?” 
“We’d like to talk to you,” Edward said, so serene. “We have some good news.” 
Charlie’s expression went from strained friendliness to black suspicion in a 
second. 
“Good news?” Charlie growled, looking straight at me. 
“Have a seat, Dad.” 
He raised one eyebrow, stared at me for five seconds, then stomped to the 
recliner and sat down on the very edge, his back ramrod straight. 
“Don’t get worked up, Dad,” I said after a moment of loaded silence. 
“Everything’s okay.” 
Edward grimaced, and I knew it was in objection to the word okay. He probably 
would have used something more like wonderful or perfect or glorious. 
“Sure it is, Bella, sure it is. If everything is so great, then why are you sweating 
bullets?” 
“I’m not sweating,” I lied.
I leaned away from his fierce scowl, cringing into Edward, and instinctively wiped 
the back of my right hand across my forehead to remove the evidence. 
“You’re pregnant!” Charlie exploded. “You’re pregnant, aren’t you?” 
Though the question was clearly meant for me, he was glaring at Edward now, 
and I could have sworn I saw his hand twitch toward the gun. 
“No! Of course I’m not!” I wanted to elbow Edward in the ribs, but I knew that 
move would only give me a bruise. I’d told Edward that people would 
immediately jump to this conclusion! What other possible reason would sane 
people have for getting married at eighteen? (His answer then had made me roll 
my eyes. Love. Right.) 
Charlie’s glower lightened a shade. It was usually pretty clear on my face when I 
was telling the truth, and he believed me now. “Oh. Sorry.” 
“Apology accepted.” 
There was a long pause. After a moment, I realized everyone was waiting for me 
to say something. I looked up at Edward, panic-stricken. There was no way I was 
going to get the words out. 
He smiled at me and then squared his shoulders and turned to my father. 
“Charlie, I realize that I’ve gone about this out of order. Traditionally, I should 
have asked you first. I mean no disrespect, but since Bella has already said yes 
and I don’t want to diminish her choice in the matter, instead of asking you for 
her hand, I’m asking you for your blessing. We’re getting married, Charlie. I love 
her more than anything in the world, more than my own life, and—by some 
miracle—she loves me that way, too. Will you give us your blessing?” 
He sounded so sure, so calm. For just an instant, listening to the absolute 
confidence in his voice, I experienced a rare moment of insight. I could see, 
fleetingly, the way the world looked to him. For the length of one heartbeat, this 
news made perfect sense. 
And then I caught sight of the expression on Charlie’s face, his eyes now locked 
on the ring. 
I held my breath while his skin changed colors—fair to red, red to purple, purple 
to blue. I started to get up—I’m not sure what I planned to do; maybe use the 
Heimlich maneuver to make sure he wasn’t choking—but Edward squeezed my 
hand and murmured “Give him a minute” so low that only I could hear. 
The silence was much longer this time. Then, gradually, shade by shade, Charlie’s 
color returned to normal. His lips pursed, and his eyebrows furrowed; I recognized his “deep in thought” expression. He studied the two of us for a long 
moment, and I felt Edward relax at my side. 
“Guess I’m not that surprised,” Charlie grumbled. “Knew I’d have to deal with 
something like this soon enough.” 
I exhaled. 
“You sure about this?” Charlie demanded, glaring at me. 
“I’m one hundred percent sure about Edward,” I told him without missing a beat. 
“Getting married, though? What’s the rush?” He eyed me suspiciously again. 
The rush was due to the fact that I was getting closer to nineteen every stinking 
day, while Edward stayed frozen in all his seventeen-year-old perfection, as he 
had for over ninety years. Not that this fact necessitated marriage in my book, 
but the wedding was required due to the delicate and tangled compromise 
Edward and I had made to finally get to this point, the brink of my 
transformation from mortal to immortal. 
These weren’t things I could explain to Charlie. 
“We’re going away to Dartmouth together in the fall, Charlie,” Edward reminded 
him. “I’d like to do that, well, the right way. It’s how I was raised.” He shrugged. 
He wasn’t exaggerating; they’d been big on old-fashioned morals during World 
War I. 
Charlie’s mouth twisted to the side. Looking for an angle to argue from. But what 
could he say? I’d prefer you live in sin first? He was a dad; his hands were tied. 
“Knew this was coming,” he muttered to himself, frowning. Then, suddenly, his 
face went perfectly smooth and blank. 
“Dad?” I asked anxiously. I glanced at Edward, but I couldn’t read his face, either, 
as he watched Charlie. 
“Ha!” Charlie exploded. I jumped in my seat. “Ha, ha, ha!” 
I stared incredulously as Charlie doubled over in laughter; his whole body shook 
with it. 
I looked at Edward for a translation, but Edward had his lips pressed tightly 
together, like he was trying to hold back laughter himself. “Okay, fine,” Charlie choked out. “Get married.” Another roll of laughter shook 
through him. “But . . .” 
“But what?” I demanded. 
“But you have to tell your mom! I’m not saying one word to Renée! That’s all 
yours!” He busted into loud guffaws. 
I paused with my hand on the doorknob, smiling. Sure, at the time, Charlie’s 
words had terrified me. The ultimate doom: telling Renée. Early marriage was 
higher up on her blacklist than boiling live puppies. 
Who could have foreseen her response? Not me. Certainly not Charlie. Maybe 
Alice, but I hadn’t thought to ask her. 
“Well, Bella,” Renée had said after I’d choked and stuttered out the impossible 
words: Mom, I’m marrying Edward. “I’m a little miffed that you waited so long 
to tell me. Plane tickets only get more expensive. Oooh,” she’d fretted. “Do you 
think Phil’s cast will be off by then? It will spoil the pictures if he’s not in a tux—” 
“Back up a second, Mom.” I’d gasped. “What do you mean, waited so long? I just 
got en-en . . .”—I’d been unable to force out the word engaged—“things settled, 
you know, today.” 
“Today? Really? That is a surprise. I assumed . . .” 
“What did you assume? When did you assume?” 
“Well, when you came to visit me in April, it looked like things were pretty much 
sewn up, if you know what I mean. You’re not very hard to read, sweetie. But I 
didn’t say anything because I knew it wouldn’t do any good. You’re exactly like 
Charlie.” She’d sighed, resigned. “Once you make up your mind, there is no 
reasoning with you. Of course, exactly like Charlie, you stick by your decisions, 
too.” 
And then she’d said the last thing that I’d ever expected to hear from my mother. 
“You’re not making my mistakes, Bella. You sound like you’re scared silly, and 
I’m guessing it’s because you’re afraid of me.” She’d giggled. “Of what I’m going 
to think. And I know I’ve said a lot of things about marriage and stupidity—and 
I’m not taking them back—but you need to realize that those things specifically 
applied to me. You’re a completely different person than I am. You make your 
own kinds of mistakes, and I’m sure you’ll have your share of regrets in life. But 
commitment was never your problem, sweetie. You have a better chance of 
making this work than most forty-year-olds I know.” Renée had laughed again. 
“My little middle-aged child. Luckily, you seem to have found another old soul.” 
“Okay, fine,” Charlie choked out. “Get married.” Another roll of laughter shook 
through him. “But . . .” 
“But what?” I demanded. 
“But you have to tell your mom! I’m not saying one word to Renée! That’s all 
yours!” He busted into loud guffaws. 
I paused with my hand on the doorknob, smiling. Sure, at the time, Charlie’s 
words had terrified me. The ultimate doom: telling Renée. Early marriage was 
higher up on her blacklist than boiling live puppies. 
Who could have foreseen her response? Not me. Certainly not Charlie. Maybe 
Alice, but I hadn’t thought to ask her. 
“Well, Bella,” Renée had said after I’d choked and stuttered out the impossible 
words: Mom, I’m marrying Edward. “I’m a little miffed that you waited so long 
to tell me. Plane tickets only get more expensive. Oooh,” she’d fretted. “Do you 
think Phil’s cast will be off by then? It will spoil the pictures if he’s not in a tux—” 
“Back up a second, Mom.” I’d gasped. “What do you mean, waited so long? I just 
got en-en . . .”—I’d been unable to force out the word engaged—“things settled, 
you know, today.” 
“Today? Really? That is a surprise. I assumed . . .” 
“What did you assume? When did you assume?” 
“Well, when you came to visit me in April, it looked like things were pretty much 
sewn up, if you know what I mean. You’re not very hard to read, sweetie. But I 
didn’t say anything because I knew it wouldn’t do any good. You’re exactly like 
Charlie.” She’d sighed, resigned. “Once you make up your mind, there is no 
reasoning with you. Of course, exactly like Charlie, you stick by your decisions, 
too.” 
And then she’d said the last thing that I’d ever expected to hear from my mother. 
“You’re not making my mistakes, Bella. You sound like you’re scared silly, and 
I’m guessing it’s because you’re afraid of me.” She’d giggled. “Of what I’m going 
to think. And I know I’ve said a lot of things about marriage and stupidity—and 
I’m not taking them back—but you need to realize that those things specifically 
applied to me. You’re a completely different person than I am. You make your 
own kinds of mistakes, and I’m sure you’ll have your share of regrets in life. But 
commitment was never your problem, sweetie. You have a better chance of 
making this work than most forty-year-olds I know.” Renée had laughed again. 
“My little middle-aged child. Luckily, you seem to have found another old soul.” 
Alice? 
“Sorry, Charlie,” Alice’s trilling voice responded. “How’s that?” 
“I’m bleeding on it.” 
“You’re fine. Didn’t break the skin—trust me.” 
“What’s going on?” I demanded, hesitating in the doorway. 
“Thirty seconds, please, Bella,” Alice told 
 

 “You’d think I was shoving bamboo splinters under your nails,” Alice muttered to 
herself as she followed me in. 
I paid no attention to her. I was in my happy place. 
In my happy place, the whole wedding mess was over and done. Behind me. 
Already repressed and forgotten. 
We were alone, just Edward and me. The setting was fuzzy and constantly in 
flux—it morphed from misty forest to cloud-covered city to arctic night—because 
Edward was keeping the location of our honeymoon a secret to surprise me. But I 
wasn’t especially concerned about the where part. 
Edward and I were together, and I’d fulfilled my side of our compromise 
perfectly. I’d married him. That was the big one. But I’d also accepted all his 
outrageous gifts and was registered, however futilely, to attend Dartmouth 
College in the fall. Now it was his turn. 
Before he turned me into a vampire—his big compromise—he had one other 
stipulation to make good on. 
Edward had an obsessive sort of concern over the human things that I would be 
giving up, the experiences he didn’t want me to miss. Most of them—like the 
prom, for example—seemed silly to me. There was only one human experience I 
worried about missing. Of course it would be the one he wished I would forget 
completely. 
Here was the thing, though. I knew a little about what I was going to be like when 
I wasn’t human anymore. I’d seen newborn vampires firsthand, and I’d heard all 
my family-to-be’s stories about those wild early days. For several years, my 
biggest personality trait was going to be thirsty. It would take some time before I 
could be me again. And even when I was in control of myself, I would never feel 
exactly the way I felt now. 
Human… and passionately in love. 
I wanted the complete experience before I traded in my warm, breakable, 
pheromone-riddled body for something beautiful, strong… and unknown. I 
wanted a real honeymoon with Edward. And, despite the danger he feared this 
would put me in, he’d agreed to try. 
I was only vaguely aware of Alice and the slip and slide of satin over my skin. I 
didn’t care, for the moment, that the whole town was talking about me. I didn’t 
think about the spectacle I would have to star in much too soon. I didn’t worry 
about tripping on my train or giggling at the wrong moment or being too young 
or the staring audience or even the empty seat where my best friend should be. 
“I miss you already.” 
“I don’t need to leave. I can stay. . . .” 
“Mmm.” 
It was quiet for a long moment, just the thud of my heart hammering, the broken 
rhythm of our ragged breathing, and the whisper of our lips moving in 
synchronization. 
Sometimes it was so easy to forget that I was kissing a vampire. Not because he 
seemed ordinary or human—I could never for a second forget that I was holding 
someone more angel than man in my arms—but because he made it seem like 
nothing at all to have his lips against my lips, my face, my throat. He claimed he 
was long past the temptation my blood used to be for him, that the idea of losing 
me had cured him of any desire for it. But I knew the smell of my blood still 
caused him pain—still burned his throat like he was inhaling flames. 
I opened my eyes and found his open, too, staring at my face. It made no sense 
when he looked at me that way. Like I was the prize rather than the outrageously 
lucky winner. 
Our gazes locked for a moment; his golden eyes were so deep that I imagined I 
could see all the way into his soul. It seemed silly that this fact—the existence of 
his soul—had ever been in question, even if he was a vampire. He had the most 
beautiful soul, more beautiful than his brilliant mind or his incomparable face or 
his glorious body. 
He looked back at me as if he could see my soul, too, and as if he liked what he 
saw. 
He couldn’t see into my mind, though, the way he saw into everyone else’s. Who 
knew why—some strange glitch in my brain that made it immune to all the 
extraordinary and frightening things some immortals could do. (Only my mind 
was immune; my body was still subject to vampires with abilities that worked in 
ways other than Edward’s.) But I was seriously grateful to whatever malfunction 
it was that kept my thoughts a secret. It was just too embarrassing to consider the 
alternative. 
I pulled his face to mine again. 
“Definitely staying,” he murmured a moment later. 
“No, no. It’s your bachelor party. You have to go.”
“I don’t know. It’s too hard to concentrate when you’re with me like this. I—I 
can’t think straight. I won’t be able to control myself. You’ll get hurt.” 
“I’ll be fine.” 
“Bella . . .” 
“Shh!” I pressed my lips to his to stop his panic attack. I’d heard it before. He 
wasn’t getting out of this deal. Not after insisting I marry him first. 
He kissed me back for a moment, but I could tell he wasn’t as into it as before. 
Worrying, always worrying. How different it would be when he didn’t need to 
worry about me anymore. What would he do with all his free time? He’d have to 
get a new hobby. 
“How are your feet?” he asked. 
Knowing he didn’t mean that literally, I answered, “Toasty warm.” 
“Really? No second thoughts? It’s not too late to change your mind.” 
“Are you trying to ditch me?” 
He chuckled. “Just making sure. I don’t want you to do anything you’re not sure 
about.” 
“I’m sure about you. The rest I can live through.” 
He hesitated, and I wondered if I’d put my foot in my mouth again. 
“Can you?” he asked quietly. “I don’t mean the wedding—which I am positive you 
will survive despite your qualms—but afterward… what about Renée, what about 
Charlie?” 
I sighed. “I’ll miss them.” Worse, that they would miss me, but I didn’t want to 
give him any fuel. 
“Angela and Ben and Jessica and Mike.” 
“I’ll miss my friends, too.” I smiled in the darkness. “Especially Mike. Oh, Mike! 
How will I go on?” 
He growled. 
I laughed but then was serious. “Edward, we’ve been through this and through 
this. I know it will be hard, but this is what I want. I want you, and I want you 
forever. One lifetime is simply not enough for me.”
“Frozen forever at eighteen,” he whispered. 
“Every woman’s dream come true,” I teased. 
“Never changing… never moving forward.” 
“What does that mean?” 
He answered slowly. “Do you remember when we told Charlie we were getting 
married? And he thought you were… pregnant?” 
“And he thought about shooting you,” I guessed with a laugh. “Admit it—for one 
second, he honestly considered it.” 
He didn’t answer. 
“What, Edward?” 
“I just wish… well, I wish that he’d been right.” 
“Gah,” I gasped. 
“More that there was some way he could have been. That we had that kind of 
potential. I hate taking that away from you, too.” 
It took me a minute. “I know what I’m doing.” 
“How could you know that, Bella? Look at my mother, look at my sister. It’s not 
as easy a sacrifice as you imagine.” 
“Esme and Rosalie get by just fine. If it’s a problem later, we can do what Esme 
did—we’ll adopt.” 
He sighed, and then his voice was fierce. “It’s not right! I don’t want you to have 
to make sacrifices for me. I want to give you things, not take things away from 
you. I don’t want to steal your future. If I were human—” 
I put my hand over his lips. “You are my future. Now stop. No moping, or I’m 
calling your brothers to come and get you. Maybe you need a bachelor party.” 
“I’m sorry. I am moping, aren’t I? Must be the nerves.” 
“Are your feet cold?” 
“Not in that sense. I’ve been waiting a century to marry you, Miss Swan. The 
wedding ceremony is the one thing I can’t wait—” He broke off mid-thought. “Oh, 
for the love of all that’s holy!” 
I sat up awkwardly, still tangled in my blanket. “Jasper? What do vampires do for 
bachelor parties? You’re not taking him to a strip club, are you?” 
“Don’t tell her anything!” Emmett growled from below. There was another thud, 
and Edward laughed quietly. 
“Relax,” Jasper told me—and I did. “We Cullens have our own version. Just a few 
mountain lions, a couple of grizzly bears. Pretty much an ordinary night out.” 
I wondered if I would ever be able to sound so cavalier about the “vegetarian” 
vampire diet. 
“Thanks, Jasper.” 
He winked and dropped from sight. 
It was completely silent outside. Charlie’s muffled snores droned through the 
walls. 
I lay back against my pillow, sleepy now. I stared at the walls of my little room, 
bleached pale in the moonlight, from under heavy lids. 
My last night in my room. My last night as Isabella Swan. Tomorrow night, I 
would be Bella Cullen. Though the whole marriage ordeal was a thorn in my side, 
I had to admit that I liked the sound of that. 
I let my mind wander idly for a moment, expecting sleep to take me. But, after a 
few minutes, I found myself more alert, anxiety creeping back into my stomach, 
twisting it into uncomfortable positions. The bed seemed too soft, too warm 
without Edward in it. Jasper was far away, and all the peaceful, relaxed feelings 
were gone with him. 
It was going to be a very long day tomorrow. 
I was aware that most of my fears were stupid—I just had to get over myself. 
Attention was an inevitable part of life. I couldn’t always blend in with the 
scenery. However, I did have a few specific worries that were completely valid. 
First there was the wedding dress’s train. Alice clearly had let her artistic sense 
overpower practicalities on that one. Maneuvering the Cullens’ staircase in heels 
and a train sounded impossible. I should have practiced. 
Then there was the guest list. 
Tanya’s family, the Denali clan, would be arriving sometime before the ceremony. 
Keeping the secret meant a lot of things—living inconspicuously like the Cullens, 
moving on before humans could suspect they weren’t aging. Or keeping clear of 
humans altogether—except at mealtime—the way nomads like James and 
Victoria had lived; the way Jasper’s friends, Peter and Charlotte, still lived. It 
meant keeping control of whatever new vampires you created, like Jasper had 
done when he’d lived with Maria. Like Victoria had failed to do with her 
newborns. 
And it meant not creating some things in the first place, because some creations 
were uncontrollable. 
“I don’t know Tanya’s mother’s name,” Carlisle had admitted, his golden eyes, 
almost the exact shade of his fair hair, sad with remembering Tanya’s pain. “They 
never speak of her if they can avoid it, never think of her willingly. 
“The woman who created Tanya, Kate, and Irina—who loved them, I believe—
lived many years before I was born, during a time of plague in our world, the 
plague of the immortal children. 
“What they were thinking, those ancient ones, I can’t begin to understand. They 
created vampires out of humans who were barely more than infants.” 
I’d had to swallow back the bile that rose in my throat as I’d pictured what he was 
describing. 
“They were very beautiful,” Carlisle had explained quickly, seeing my reaction. 
“So endearing, so enchanting, you can’t imagine. You had but to be near them to 
love them; it was an automatic thing. 
“However, they could not be taught. They were frozen at whatever level of 
development they’d achieved before being bitten. Adorable two-year-olds with 
dimples and lisps that could

 Volturi forces; I’d only met them once, but in that brief encounter, it seemed to 
me that Aro, with his powerful mind-reading gift—one touch, and he knew every 
thought a mind had ever held—was the true leader. 
“The Volturi studied the immortal children, at home in Volterra and all around 
the world. Caius decided the young ones were incapable of protecting our secret. 
And so they had to be destroyed. 
“I told you they were loveable. Well, covens fought to the last man—were utterly 
decimated—to protect them. The carnage was not as widespread as the southern 
wars on this continent, but more devastating in its own way. Long-established 
covens, old traditions, friends… Much was lost. In the end, the practice was 
completely eliminated. The immortal children became unmentionable, a taboo. 
“When I lived with the Volturi, I met two immortal children, so I know firsthand 
the appeal they had. Aro studied the little ones for many years after the 
catastrophe they’d caused was over. You know his inquisitive disposition; he was 
hopeful that they could be tamed. But in the end, the decision was unanimous: 
the immortal children could not be allowed to exist.” 
I’d all but forgotten the Denali sisters’ mother when the story returned to her. 
“It is unclear precisely what happened with Tanya’s mother,” Carlisle had said. 
“Tanya, Kate, and Irina were entirely oblivious until the day the Volturi came for 
them, their mother and her illegal creation already their prisoners. It was 
ignorance that saved Tanya’s and her sisters’ lives. Aro touched them and saw 
their total innocence, so they were not punished with their mother. 
“None of them had ever seen the boy before, or dreamed of his existence, until 
the day they watched him burn in their mother’s arms. I can only guess that their 
mother had kept her secret to protect them from this exact outcome. But why had 
she created him in the first place? Who was he, and what had he meant to her 
that would cause her to cross this most uncrossable of lines? Tanya and the 
others never received an answer to any of these questions. But they could not 
doubt their mother’s guilt, and I don’t think they’ve ever truly forgiven her. 
“Even with Aro’s perfect assurance that Tanya, Kate, and Irina were innocent, 
Caius wanted them to burn. Guilty by association. They were lucky that Aro felt 
like being merciful that day. Tanya and her sisters were pardoned, but left with 
unhealing hearts and a very healthy respect for the law....” 
I’m not sure where exactly the memory turned into a dream. One moment it 
seemed that I was listening to Carlisle in my memory, looking at his face, and 
then a moment later I was looking at a gray, barren field and smelling the thick 
scent of burning incense in the air. I was not alone there.
The huddle of figures in the center of the field, all shrouded in ashy cloaks, should 
have terrified me—they could only be Volturi, and I was, against what they’d 
decreed at our last meeting, still human. But I knew, as I sometimes did in 
dreams, that I was invisible to them. 
Scattered all around me were smoking heaps. I recognized the sweetness in the 
air and did not examine the mounds too closely. I had no desire to see the faces of 
the vampires they had executed, half afraid that I might recognize someone in the 
smoldering pyres. 
The Volturi soldiers stood in a circle around something or someone, and I heard 
their whispery voices raised in agitation. I edged closer to the cloaks, compelled 
by the dream to see whatever thing or person they were examining with such 
intensity. Creeping carefully between two of the tall hissing shrouds, I finally saw 
the object of their debate, raised up on a little hillock above them. 
He was beautiful, adorable, just as Carlisle had described. The boy was a toddler 
still, maybe two years of age. Light brown curls framed his cherubic face with its 
round cheeks and full lips. And he was trembling, his eyes closed as if he was too 
frightened to watch death coming closer every second. 
I was struck with such a powerful need to save the lovely, terrified child that the 
Volturi, despite all their devastating menace, no longer mattered to me. I shoved 
past them, not caring if they realized my presence. Breaking free of them 
altogether, I sprinted toward the boy. 
Only to stagger to a halt as I got a clear view of the hillock that he sat upon. It was 
not earth and rock, but a pile of human bodies, drained and lifeless. Too late not 
to see these faces. I knew them all—Angela, Ben, Jessica, Mike.… And directly 
beneath the adorable boy were the bodies of my father and my mother. 
The child opened his bright, bloodred eyes.
My own eyes flew open. 
I lay shivering and gasping in my warm bed for several minutes, trying to break 
free of the dream. The sky outside my window turned gray and then pale pink 
while I waited for my heart to slow. 
When I was fully back to the reality of my messy, familiar room, I was a little 
annoyed with myself. What a dream to have the night before my wedding! That’s 
what I got for obsessing over disturbing stories in the middle of the night. 
Eager to shake off the nightmare, I got dressed and headed down to the kitchen 
long before I needed to. First I cleaned the already tidy rooms, and then when 
Charlie was up I made him pancakes. I was much too keyed up to have any 
interest in eating breakfast myself—I sat bouncing in my seat while he ate. 
“You’re picking up Mr. Weber at three o’clock,” I reminded him. 
“I don’t have that much to do today besides bring the minister, Bells. I’m not 
likely to forget my only job.” Charlie had taken the entire day off for the wedding, 
and he was definitely at loose ends. Now and then, his eyes flickered furtively to 
the closet under the stairs, where he kept his fishing gear. 
“That’s not your only job. You also have to be dressed and presentable.” 
He scowled into his cereal bowl and muttered the words “monkey suit” under his 
breath. 
There was a brisk tapping on the front door. 
“You think you have it bad,” I said, grimacing as I rose. “Alice will be working on 
me all day long.” 
Charlie nodded thoughtfully, conceding that he did have the lesser ordeal. I 
ducked in to kiss the top of his head as I passed—he blushed and harrumphed—
and then continued on to get the door for my best girlfriend and soon-to-be 
sister. 
Alice’s short black hair was not in its usual spiky do—it was smoothed into sleek 
pin curls around her pixie face, which wore a contrastingly businesslike 
expression. She dragged me from the house with barely a “Hey, Charlie” called 
over her shoulder. 
Alice appraised me as I got into her Porsche. 
“Oh, hell, look at your eyes!” She tsked in reproach. “What did you do? Stay up all 
night?” 
“Almost.” 
She glowered. “I’ve only allotted so much time to make you stunning, Bella—you 
might have taken better care of my raw material.” 
“No one expects me to be stunning. I think the bigger problem is that I might fall 
asleep during the ceremony and not be able to say ‘I do’ at the right part, and 
then Edward will make his escape.” 
She laughed. “I’ll throw my bouquet at you when it gets close.” 
“Thanks.” 
“At least you’ll have plenty of time to sleep on the plane tomorrow.” 
I raised one eyebrow. Tomorrow, I mused. If we were heading out tonight after 
the reception, and we would still be on a plane tomorrow… well, we weren’t going 
to Boise, Idaho. Edward hadn’t dropped a single hint. I wasn’t too stressed about 
the mystery, but it was strange not knowing where I would be sleeping tomorrow 
night. Or hopefully not sleeping... 
Alice realized that she’d given something away, and she frowned. 
“You’re all packed and ready,” she said to distract me. 
It worked. “Alice, I wish you would let me pack my own things!” 
“It would have given too much away.” 
“And denied you an opportunity to shop.” 
“You’ll be my sister officially in ten short hours… it’s about time to get over this 
aversion to new clothes.” 
I glowered groggily out the windshield until we were almost to the house. 
“Is he back yet?” I asked. 
“Don’t worry, he’ll be there before the music starts. But you don’t get to see him, 
no matter when he gets back. We’re doing this the traditional way.” 
I snorted. “Traditional!” 
“Okay, aside from the bride and groom.” 
“You know he’s already peeked.” 
“Oh no—that’s why I’m the only one who’s seen you in the dress. I’ve been very 
careful to not think about it when he’s around.” 
“Well,” I said as we turned into the drive, “I see you got to reuse your graduation 
decorations.” Three miles of drive were once again wrapped in hundreds of 
thousands of twinkle lights. This time, she’d added white satin bows. 
“Waste not, want not. Enjoy this, because you don’t get to see the inside 
decorations until it’s time.” She pulled into the cavernous garage north of the 
main house; Emmett’s big Jeep was still gone. 
“Since when is the bride not allowed to see the decorations?” I protested. 
“Since she put me in charge. I want you to get the full impact coming down the 
stairs.” 
She clapped her hand over my eyes before she let me inside the kitchen. I was 
immediately assailed by the scent. 
“What is that?” I wondered as she guided me into the house. 
“Is it too much?” Alice’s voice was abruptly worried. “You’re the first human in 
here; I hope I got it right.” 
“It smells wonderful!” I assured her—almost intoxicating, but not at all 
overwhelming, the balance of the different fragrances was subtle and flawless. 
“Orange blossoms… lilac… and something else—am I right?” 
“Very good, Bella. You only missed the freesia and the roses.” 
She didn’t uncover my eyes until we were in her oversized bathroom. I stared at 
the long counter, covered in all the paraphernalia of a beauty salon, and began to 
feel my sleepless night. 
“Is this really necessary? I’m going to look plain next to him no matter what.” 
She pushed me down into a low pink chair. “No one will dare to call you plain 
when I’m through with you.” 
“Only because they’re afraid you’ll suck their blood,” I muttered. I leaned back in 
the chair and closed my eyes, hoping I’d be able to nap through it. I did drift in 
and out a little bit while she masked, buffed, and polished every surface of my 
body. 
It was after lunchtime when Rosalie glided past the bathroom door in a shimmery 
silver gown with her golden hair piled up in a soft crown on top of her head. She 
was so beautiful it made me want to cry. What was even the point of dressing up 
with Rosalie around? 
“They’re back,” Rosalie said, and immediately my childish fit of despair passed. 
Edward was home. 
“Keep him out of here!” 
“He won’t cross you today,” Rosalie reassured her. “He values his life too much. 
Esme’s got them finishing things up out back. Do you want some help? I could do 
her hair.” 
My jaw fell open. I floundered around in my head, trying to remember how to 
close it. 
I had never been Rosalie’s favorite person in the world. Then, making things even 
more strained between us, she was personally offended by the choice I was 
making now. Though she had her impossible beauty, her loving family, and her 
soul mate in Emmett, she would have traded it all to be
 She rolled her eyes and darted out the door. 
I concentrated on my breathing, counting each movement of my lungs, and 
stared at the patterns that the bathroom light made on the shiny fabric of my 
skirt. I was afraid to look in the mirror—afraid the image of myself in the wedding 
dress would send me over the edge into a full-scale panic attack. 
Alice was back before I had taken two hundred breaths, in a dress that flowed 
down her slender body like a silvery waterfall. 
“Alice—wow.” 
“It’s nothing. No one will be looking at me today. Not while you’re in the room.” 
“Har har.” 
“Now, are you in control of yourself, or do I have to bring Jasper up here?” 
“They’re back? Is my mom here?” 
“She just walked in the door. She’s on her way up.” 
Renée had flown in two days ago, and I’d spent every minute I could with her—
every minute that I could pry her away from Esme and the decorations, in other 
words. As far as I could tell, she was having more fun with this than a kid locked 
inside Disneyland overnight. In a way, I felt almost as cheated as Charlie. All that 
wasted terror over her reaction... 
“Oh, Bella!” she squealed now, gushing before she was all the way through the 
door. “Oh, honey, you’re so beautiful! Oh, I’m going to cry! Alice, you’re amazing! 
You and Esme should go into business as wedding planners. Where did you find 
this dress? It’s gorgeous! So graceful, so elegant. Bella, you look like you just 
stepped out of an Austen movie.” My mother’s voice sounded a little distance 
away, and everything in the room was slightly blurry. “Such a creative idea, 
designing the theme around Bella’s ring. So romantic! To think it’s been in 
Edward’s family since the eighteen hundreds!” 
Alice and I exchanged a brief conspiratorial look. My mom was off on the dress 
style by more than a hundred years. The wedding wasn’t actually centered around 
the ring, but around Edward himself. 
There was a loud, gruff throat-clearing in the doorway. 
“Renée, Esme said it’s time you got settled down there,” Charlie said. 
“Well, Charlie, don’t you look dashing!” Renée said in a tone that was almost 
shocked. That might have explained the crustiness of Charlie’s answer.
“Alice got to me.” 
“Is it really time already?” Renée said to herself, sounding almost as nervous as I 
felt. “This has all gone so fast. I feel dizzy.” 
That made two of us. 
“Give me a hug before I go down,” Renée insisted. “Carefully now, don’t tear 
anything.” 
My mother squeezed me gently around the waist, then wheeled for the door, only 
to complete the spin and face me again. 
“Oh goodness, I almost forgot! Charlie, where’s the box?” 
My dad rummaged in his pockets for a minute and then produced a small white 
box, which he handed to Renée. Renée lifted the lid and held it out to me. 
“Something blue,” she said. 
“Something old, too. They were your Grandma Swan’s,” Charlie added. “We had a 
jeweler replace the paste stones with sapphires.” 
Inside the box were two heavy silver hair combs. Dark blue sapphires were 
clustered into intricate floral shapes atop the teeth. 
My throat got all thick. “Mom, Dad… you shouldn’t have.” 
“Alice wouldn’t let us do anything else,” Renée said. “Every time we tried, she all 
but ripped our throats out.” 
A hysterical giggle burst through my lips. 
Alice stepped up and quickly slid both combs into my hair under the edge of the 
thick braids. “That’s something old and something blue,” Alice mused, taking a 
few steps back to admire me. “And your dress is new… so here—” 
She flicked something at me. I held my hands out automatically, and the filmy 
white garter landed in my palms. 
“That’s mine and I want it back,” Alice told me. 
I blushed. 
“There,” Alice said with satisfaction. “A little color—that’s all you needed. You are 
officially perfect.” With a little self-congratulatory smile, she turned to my 
parents. “Renée, you need to get downstairs.” “Yes, ma’am.” Renée blew me a kiss and hurried out the door. 
“Charlie, would you grab the flowers, please?” 
While Charlie was out of the room, Alice hooked the garter out of my hands and 
then ducked under my skirt. I gasped and tottered as her cold hand caught my 
ankle; she yanked the garter into place. 
She was back on her feet before Charlie returned with the two frothy white 
bouquets. The scent of roses and orange blossom and freesia enveloped me in a 
soft mist. 
Rosalie—the best musician in the family next to Edward—began playing the 
piano downstairs. Pachelbel’s Canon. I began hyperventilating. 
“Easy, Bells,” Charlie said. He turned to Alice nervously. “She looks a little sick. 
Do you think she’s going to make it?” 
His voice sounded far away. I couldn’t feel my legs. 
“She’d better.” 
Alice stood right in front of me, on her tiptoes to better stare me in the eye, and 
gripped my wrists in her hard hands. 
“Focus, Bella. Edward is waiting for you down there.” 
I took a deep breath, willing myself into composure. 
The music slowly morphed into a new song. Charlie nudged me. “Bells, we’re up 
to bat.” 
“Bella?” Alice asked, still holding my gaze. 
“Yes,” I squeaked. “Edward. Okay.” I let her pull me from the room, with Charlie 
tagging along at my elbow. 
The music was louder in the hall. It floated up the stairs along with the fragrance 
of a million flowers. I concentrated on the idea of Edward waiting below to get my 
feet to shuffle forward. 
The music was familiar, Wagner’s traditional march surrounded by a flood of 
embellishments. 
“It’s my turn,” Alice chimed. “Count to five and follow me.” She began a slow, 
graceful dance down the staircase. I should have realized that having Alice as my only bridesmaid was a mistake. I would look that much more uncoordinated 
coming behind her. 
A sudden fanfare trilled through the soaring music. I recognized my cue. 
“Don’t let me fall, Dad,” I whispered. Charlie pulled my hand through his arm 
and then grasped it tightly. 
One step at a time, I told myself as we began to descend to the slow tempo of the 
march. I didn’t lift my eyes until my feet were safely on the flat ground, though I 
could hear the murmurs and rustling of the audience as I came into view. Blood 
flooded my cheeks at the sound; of course I could be counted on to be the 
blushing bride. 
As soon as my feet were past the treacherous stairs, I was looking for him. For a 
brief second, I was distracted by the profusion of white blossoms that hung in 
garlands from everything in the room that wasn’t alive, dripping with long lines 
of white gossamer ribbons. But I tore my eyes from the bowery canopy and 
searched across the rows of satin-draped chairs—blushing more deeply as I took 
in the crowd of faces all focused on me—until I found him at last, standing before 
an arch overflowing with more flowers, more gossamer. 
I was barely conscious that Carlisle stood by his side, and Angela’s father behind 
them both. I didn’t see my mother where she must have been sitting in the front 
row, or my new family, or any of the guests—they would have to wait till later. 
All I really saw was Edward’s face; it filled my vision and overwhelmed my mind. 
His eyes were a buttery, burning gold; his perfect face was almost severe with the 
depth of his emotion. And then, as he met my awed gaze, he broke into a 
breathtaking smile of exultation. 
Suddenly, it was only the pressure of Charlie’s hand on mine that kept me from 
sprinting headlong down the aisle. 
The march was too slow as I struggled to pace my steps to its rhythm. Mercifully, 
the aisle was very short. And then, at last, at last, I was there. Edward held out his 
hand. Charlie took my hand and, in a symbol as old as the world, placed it in 
Edward’s. I touched the cool miracle of his skin, and I was home. 
Our vows were the simple, traditional words that had been spoken a million 
times, though never by a couple quite like us. We’d asked Mr. Weber to make 
only one small change. He obligingly traded the line “till death do us part” for the 
more appropriate “as long as we both shall live.” 
In that moment, as the minister said his part, my world, which had been upside 
down for so long now, seemed to settle into its proper position. I saw just how 
silly I’d been for fearing this—as if it were an unwanted birthday gift or an embarrassing exhibition, like the prom. I looked into Edward’s shining, 
triumphant eyes and knew that I was winning, too. Because nothing else 
mattered but that I could stay with him. 
I didn’t realize I was crying until it was time to say the binding words. 
“I do,” I managed to choke out in a nearly unintelligible whisper, blinking my 
eyes clear so I could see his face. 
When it was his turn to speak, the words rang clear and victorious. 
“I do,” he vowed. 
Mr. Weber declared us husband and wife, and then Edward’s hands reached up 
to cradle my face, carefully, as if it were as delicate as the white petals swaying 
above our heads. I tried to comprehend, through the film of tears blinding me, 
the surreal fact that this amazing person was mine. His golden eyes looked as if 
they would have tears, too, if such a thing were not impossible. He bent his head 
toward mine, and I stretched up on the tips of my toes, throwing my arms—
bouquet and all—around his neck. 
He kissed me tenderly, adoringly; I forgot the crowd, the place, the time, the 
reason… only remembering that he loved me, that he wanted me, that I was his. 
He began the kiss, and he had to end it; I clung to him, ignoring the titters and 
the throat-clearing in the audience. Finally, his hands restrained my face and he 
pulled back—too soon—to look at me. On the surface his sudden smile was 
amused, almost a smirk. But underneath his momentary entertainment at my 
public exhibition was a deep joy that echoed my own. 
The crowd erupted into applause, and he turned our bodies to face our friends 
and family. I couldn’t look away from his face to see them. 
My mother’s arms were the first to find me, her tear-streaked face the first thing I 
saw when I finally tore my eyes unwillingly from Edward. And then I was handed 
through the crowd, passed from embrace to embrace, only vaguely aware of who 
held me, my attention centered on Edward’s hand clutched tightly in my own. I 
did recognize the difference between the soft, warm hugs of my human friends 
and the gentle, cool embraces of my new family. 
One scorching hug stood out from all the others—Seth Clearwater had braved the 
throng of vampires to stand in for my lost werewolf friend.
The wedding flowed into the reception party smoothly—proof of Alice’s flawless 
planning. It was just twilight over the river; the ceremony had lasted exactly the 
right amount of time, allowing the sun to set behind the trees. The lights in the 
trees glimmered as Edward led me through the glass back doors, making the 
white flowers glow. There were another ten thousand flowers out here, serving as 
a fragrant, airy tent over the dance floor set up on the grass under two of the 
ancient cedars. 
Things slowed down, relaxed as the mellow August evening surrounded us. The 
little crowd spread out under the soft shine of the twinkle lights, and we were 
greeted again by the friends we’d just embraced. There
 