The next day was better… and worse.
It was better because it wasn't raining yet, though the clouds were dense and opaque. It was easier
because I knew what to expect of my day. Mike came to sit by me in English, and walked me to my next
class, with Chess Club Eric glaring at him all the while; that was nattering. People didn't look at me quite
as much as they had yesterday. I sat with a big group at lunch that included Mike, Eric, Jessica, and
several other people whose names and faces I now remembered. I began to feel like I was treading
water, instead of drowning in it.
It was worse because I was tired; I still couldn't sleep with the wind echoing around the house. It was
worse because Mr. Varner called on me in Trig when my hand wasn't raised and I had the wrong
answer. It was miserable because I had to play volleyball, and the one time I didn't cringe out of the way
of the ball, I hit my teammate in the head with it. And it was worse because Edward Cullen wasn't in
school at all.
All morning I was dreading lunch, fearing his bizarre glares. Part of me wanted to confront him and
demand to know what his problem was. While I was lying sleepless in my bed, I even imagined what I
would say. But I knew myself too well to think I would really have the guts to do it. I made the Cowardly
Lion look like the terminator.
But when I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica — trying to keep my eyes from sweeping the place for
him, and failing entirely — I saw that his four siblings of sorts were sitting together at the same table, and
he was not with them.
Mike intercepted us and steered us to his table. Jessica seemed elated by the attention, and her friends
quickly joined us. But as I tried to listen to their easy chatter, I was terribly uncomfortable, waiting
nervously for the moment he would arrive. I hoped that he would simply ignore me when he came, and
prove my suspicions false.
He didn't come, and as time passed I grew more and more tense.
I walked to Biology with more confidence when, by the end of lunch, he still hadn't showed. Mike, who
was taking on the qualities of a golden retriever, walked faithfully by my side to class. I held my breath at
the door, but Edward Cullen wasn't there, either. I exhaled and went to my seat. Mike followed, talking
about an upcoming trip to the beach. He lingered by my desk till the bell rang. Then he smiled at me
wistfully and went to sit by a girl with braces and a bad perm. It looked like I was going to have to do
something about Mike, and it wouldn't be easy. In a town like this, where everyone lived on top of
everyone else, diplomacy was essential. I had never been enormously tactful; I had no practice dealing
with overly friendly boys.
I was relieved that I had the desk to myself, that Edward was absent. I told myself that repeatedly. But I
couldn't get rid of the nagging suspicion that I was the reason he wasn't there. It was ridiculous, and
egotistical, to think that I could affect anyone that strongly. It was impossible. And yet I couldn't stop
worrying that it was true.
When the school day was finally done, and the blush was fading out of my cheeks from the volleyball
incident, I changed quickly back into my jeans and navy blue sweater. I hurried from the girls' locker
room, pleased to find that I had successfully evaded my retriever friend for the moment. I walked swiftly
out to the parking lot. It was crowded now with fleeing students. I got in my truck and dug through my
bag to make sure I had what I needed.
Last night I'd discovered that Charlie couldn't cook much besides fried eggs and bacon. So I requestedthat I be assigned kitchen detail for the duration of my stay. He was willing enough to hand over the keys
to the banquet hall. I also found out that he had no food in the house. So I had my shopping list and the
cash from the jar in the cupboard labeled FOOD MONEY, and I was on my way to the Thriftway.
I gunned my deafening engine to life, ignoring the heads that turned in my direction, and backed carefully
into a place in the line of cars that were waiting to exit the parking lot. As I waited, trying to pretend that
the earsplitting rumble was coming from someone else's car, I saw the two Cullens and the Hale twins
getting into their car. It was the shiny new Volvo. Of course. I hadn't noticed their clothes before — I'd
been too mesmerized by their faces. Now that I looked, it was obvious that they were all dressed
exceptionally well; simply, but in clothes that subtly hinted at designer origins. With their remarkable good
looks, the style with which they carried themselves, they could have worn dishrags and pulled it off. It
seemed excessive for them to have both looks and money. But as far as I could tell, life worked that way
most of the time. It didn't look as if it bought them any acceptance here.
No, I didn't fully believe that. The isolation must be their desire; I couldn't imagine any door that wouldn't
be opened by that degree of beauty.
They looked at my noisy truck as I passed them, just like everyone else. I kept my eyes straight forward
and was relieved when I finally was free of the school grounds.
The Thriftway was not far from the school, just a few streets south, off the highway. It was nice to be
inside the supermarket; it felt normal. I did the shopping at home, and I fell into the pattern of the familiar
task gladly. The store was big enough inside that I couldn't hear the tapping of the rain on the roof to
remind me where I was.
When I got home, I unloaded all the groceries, stuffing them in wherever I could find an open space. I
hoped Charlie wouldn't mind. I wrapped potatoes in foil and stuck them in the oven to bake, covered a
steak in marinade and balanced it on top of a carton of eggs in the fridge.
When I was finished with that, I took my book bag upstairs. Before starting my homework, I changed
into a pair of dry sweats, pulled my damp hair up into a pony-tail, and checked my e-mail for the first
time. I had three messages.
I had decided to read Wuthering Heights — the novel we were currently studying in English — yet
again for the fun of it, and that's what I was doing when Charlie came home. I'd lost track of the time,
and I hurried downstairs to take the potatoes out and put the steak in to broil.
"Bella?" my father called out when he heard me on the stairs.
Who else? I thought to myself.
"Hey, Dad, welcome home."
"Thanks." He hung up his gun belt and stepped out of his boots as I bustled about the kitchen. As far as I
was aware, he'd never shot the gun on the job. But he kept it ready. When I came here as a child, he
would always remove the bullets as soon as he walked in the door. I guess he considered me old enough
now not to shoot myself by accident, and not depressed enough to shoot myself on purpose.
"What's for dinner?" he asked warily. My mother was an imaginative cook, and her experiments weren'talways edible. I was surprised, and sad, that he seemed to remember that far back.
"Steak and potatoes," I answered, and he looked relieved.
He seemed to feel awkward standing in the kitchen doing nothing; he lumbered into the living room to
watch TV while I worked. We were both more comfortable that way. I made a salad while the steaks
cooked, and set the table.
I called him in when dinner was ready, and he sniffed appreciatively as he walked into the room.
"Smells good, Bell."
"Thanks."
We ate in silence for a few minutes. It wasn't uncomfortable. Neither of us was bothered by the quiet. In
some ways, we were well suited for living together.
"So, how did you like school? Have you made any friends?" he asked as he was taking seconds.
"Well, I have a few classes with a girl named Jessica. I sit with her friends at lunch. And there's this boy,
Mike, who's very friendly. Everybody seems pretty nice." With one outstanding exception.
"That must be Mike Newton. Nice kid — nice family. His dad owns the sporting goods store just outside
of town. He makes a good living off all the backpackers who come through here."
"Do you know the Cullen family?" I asked hesitantly.
"Dr. Cullen's family? Sure. Dr. Cullen's a great man."
"They… the kids… are a little different. They don't seem to fit in very well at school."
Charlie surprised me by looking angry.
"People in this town," he muttered. "Dr. Cullen is a brilliant surgeon who could probably work in any
hospital in the world, make ten times the salary he gets here," he continued, getting louder. "We're lucky
to have him — lucky that his wife wanted to live in a small town. He's an asset to the community, and all
of those kids are well behaved and polite. I had my doubts, when they first moved in, with all those
adopted teenagers. I thought we might have some problems with them. But they're all very mature — I
haven't had one speck of trouble from any of them. That's more than I can say for the children of some
folks who have lived in this town for generations. And they stick together the way a family should —
camping trips every other weekend… Just because they're newcomers, people have to talk."
It was the longest speech I'd ever heard Charlie make. He must feel strongly about whatever people
were saying.
I backpedaled. "They seemed nice enough to me. I just noticed they kept to themselves. They're all very
attractive," I added, trying to be more complimentary.
"You should see the doctor," Charlie said, laughing. "It's a good thing he's happily married. A lot of the
nurses at the hospital have a hard time concentrating on their work with him around."
We lapsed back into silence as we finished eating. He cleared the table while I started on the dishes. He
went back to the TV, and after I finished washing the dishes by hand — no dishwasher — I went
upstairs unwillingly to work on my math homework. I could feel a tradition in the making.That night it was finally quiet. I fell asleep quickly, exhausted.
The rest of the week was uneventful. I got used to the routine of my classes. By Friday I was able to
recognize, if not name, almost all the students at school. In Gym, the kids on my team learned not to pass
me the ball and to step quickly in front of me if the other team tried to take advantage of my weakness. I
happily stayed out of their way.
Edward Cullen didn't come back to school.
Every day, I watched anxiously until the rest of the Cullens entered the cafeteria without him. Then I
could relax and join in the lunchtime conversation. Mostly it centered around a trip to the La Push Ocean
Park in two weeks that Mike was putting together. I was invited, and I had agreed to go, more out of
politeness than desire. Beaches should be hot
