By Friday I was perfectly comfortable entering my Biology class, no longer worried that Edward would
be there. For all I knew, he had dropped out of school. I tried not to think about him, but I couldn't
totally suppress the worry that I was responsible for his continued absence, ridiculous as it seemed.
My first weekend in Forks passed without incident. Charlie, unused to spending time in the usually empty
house, worked most of the weekend. I cleaned the house, got ahead on my homework, and wrote my
mom more bogusly cheerful e-mail. I did drive to the library Saturday, but it was so poorly stocked that I
didn't bother to get a card; I would have to make a date to visit Olympia or Seattle soon and find a good
bookstore. I wondered idly what kind of gas mileage the truck got… and shuddered at the thought.
The rain stayed soft over the weekend, quiet, so I was able to sleep well.
People greeted me in the parking lot Monday morning. I didn't know all their names, but I waved back
and smiled at everyone. It was colder this morning, but happily not raining. In English, Mike took his
accustomed seat by my side. We had a pop quiz on Wuthering Heights. It was straightforward, very
easy.
All in all, I was feeling a lot more comfortable than I had thought I would feel by this point. More
comfortable than I had ever expected to feel here.
When we walked out of class, the air was full of swirling bits of white. I could hear people shouting
excitedly to each other. The wind bit at my cheeks, my nose.
"Wow," Mike said. "It's snowing."
I looked at the little cotton fluffs that were building up along the sidewalk and swirling erratically past my
face.
"Ew." Snow. There went my good day.
He looked surprised. "Don't you like snow?"
"No. That means it's too cold for rain." Obviously. "Besides, I thought it was supposed to come down in
flakes — you know, each one unique and all that. These just look like the ends of Q-tips."
"Haven't you ever seen snow fall before?" he asked incredulously.
"Sure I have." I paused. "On TV."
Mike laughed. And then a big, squishy ball of dripping snow smacked into the back of his head. We bothturned to see where it came from. I had my suspicions about Eric, who was walking away, his back
toward us — in the wrong direction for his next class. Mike appatently had the same notion. He bent
over and began scraping together a pile of the white mush.
"I'll see you at lunch, okay?" I kept walking as I spoke. "Once people start throwing wet stuff, I go
inside."
He just nodded, his eyes on Eric's retreating figure.
Throughout the morning, everyone chattered excitedly about the snow; apparently it was the first snowfall
of the new year. I kept my mouth shut. Sure, it was drier than rain — until it melted in your socks.
I walked alertly to the cafeteria with Jessica after Spanish. Mush balls were flying everywhere. I kept a
binder in my hands, ready to use it as a shield if necessary. Jessica thought I was hilarious, but something
in my expression kept her from lobbing a snowball at me herself.
Mike caught up to us as we walked in the doors, laughing, with ice melting the spikes in his hair. He and
Jessica were talking animatedly about the snow fight as we got in line to buy food. I glanced toward that
table in the corner out of habit. And then I froze where I stood. There were five people at the table.
Jessica pulled on my arm.
"Hello? Bella? What do you want?"
I looked down; my ears were hot. I had no reason to feel self-conscious, I reminded myself. I hadn't
done anything wrong.
"What's with Bella?" Mike asked Jessica.
"Nothing," I answered. "I'll just get a soda today." I caught up to the end of the line.
"Aren't you hungry?" Jessica asked.
"Actually, I feel a little sick," I said, my eyes still on the floor.
I waited for them to get their food, and then followed them to a table, my eyes on my feet.
I sipped my soda slowly, my stomach churning. Twice Mike asked, with unnecessary concern, how I
was feeling.
I told him it was nothing, but I was wondering if I should play it up and escape to the nurse's office for
the next hour.
Ridiculous. I shouldn't have to run away.
I decided to permit myself one glance at the Cullen family's table. If he was glaring at me, I would skip
Biology, like the coward I was.
I kept my head down and glanced up under my lashes. None of them were looking this way. I lifted my
head a little.
They were laughing. Edward, Jasper, and Emmett all had their hair entirely saturated with melting snow.
Alice and Rosalie were leaning away as Emmett shook his dripping hair toward them. They were
enjoying the snowy day, just like everyone else — only they looked more like a scene from a movie than
the rest of us.But, aside from the laughter and playfulness, there was something different, and I couldn't quite pinpoint
what that difference was. I examined Edward the most carefully. His skin was less pale, I decided —
flushed from the snow fight maybe — the circles under his eyes much less noticeable. But there was
something more. I pondered, staring, trying to isolate the change.
"Bella, what are you staring at?" Jessica intruded, her eyes following my stare.
At that precise moment, his eyes flashed over to meet mine.
I dropped my head, letting my hair fall to conceal my face. I was sure, though, in the instant our eyes met,
that he didn't look harsh or unfriendly as he had the last time I'd seen him. He looked merely curious
again, unsatisfied in some way.
"Edward Cullen is staring at you," Jessica giggled in my ear.
"He doesn't look angry, does he?" I couldn't help asking.
"No," she said, sounding confused by my question. "Should he be?"
"I don't think he likes me," I confided. I still felt queasy. I put my head down on my arm.
"The Cullens don't like anybody… well, they don't notice anybody enough to like them. But he's still
staring at you."
"Stop looking at him," I hissed.
She snickered, but she looked away. I raised my head enough to make sure that she did, contemplating
violence if she resisted.
Mike interrupted us then — he was planning an epic battle of the blizzard in the parking lot after school
and wanted us to join. Jessica agreed enthusiastically. The way she looked at Mike left little doubt that
she would be up for anything he suggested. I kept silent. I would have to hide in the gym until the parking
lot cleared.
For the rest of the lunch hour I very carefully kept my eyes at my own table. I decided to honor the
bargain I'd made with myself. Since he didn't look angry, I would go to Biology. My stomach did
frightened little flips at the thought of sitting next to him again.
I didn't really want to walk to class with Mike as usual — he seemed to be a popular target for the
snowball snipers — but when we went to the door, everyone besides me groaned in unison. It was
raining, washing all traces of the snow away in clear, icy ribbons down the side of the walkway. I pulled
my hood up, secretly pleased. I would be free to go straight home after Gym.
Mike kept up a string of complaints on the way to building four.
Once inside the classroom, I saw with relief that my table was still empty. Mr. Banner was walking
around the room, distributing one microscope and box of slides to each table. Class didn't start for a few
minutes, and the room buzzed with conversation. I kept my eyes away from the door, doodling idly on
the cover of my notebook.
I heard very clearly when the chair next to me moved, but my eyes stayed carefully focused on the
pattern I was drawing.
"Hello," said a quiet, musical voice.I looked up, stunned that he was speaking to me. He was sitting as far away from me as the desk
allowed, but his chair was angled toward me. His hair was dripping wet, disheveled — even so, he
looked like he'd just finished shooting a commercial for hair gel. His dazzling face was friendly, open, a
slight smile on his flawless lips. But his eyes were careful.
"My name is Edward Cullen," he continued. "I didn't have a chance to introduce myself last week. You
must be Bella Swan."
My mind was spinning with confusion. Had I made up the whole thing? He was perfectly polite now. I
had to speak; he was waiting. But I couldn't think of anything conventional to say.
"H-how do you know my name?" I stammered.
He laughed a soft, enchanting laugh.
"Oh, I think everyone knows your name. The whole town's been waiting for you to arrive."
I grimaced. I knew it was something like that.
"No," I persisted stupidly. "I meant, why did you call me Bella?"
He seemed confused. "Do you prefer Isabella?"
"No, I like Bella," I said. "But I think Charlie — I mean my dad — must call me Isabella behind my back
— that's what everyone here seems to know me as," I tried to explain, feeling like an utter moron.
"Oh." He let it drop. I looked away awkwardly.
Thankfully, Mr. Banner started class at that moment. I tried to concentrate as he explained the lab we
would be doing today. The slides in the box were out of order. Working as lab partners, we had to
separate the slides of onion root tip cells into the phases of mitosis they represented and label them
accordingly. We weren't supposed to use our books. In twenty minutes, he would be coming around to
see who had it right.
"Get started," he commanded.
"Ladies first, partner?" Edward asked. I looked up to see him smiling a crooked smile so beautiful that I
could only stare at him like an idiot.
"Or I could start, if you wish." The smile faded; he was obviously wondering if I was mentally competent.
"No," I said, flushing. "I'll go ahead."
I was showing off, just a little. I'd already done this lab, and I knew what I was looking for. It should be
easy. I snapped the first slide into place under the microscope and adjusted it quickly to the 40X
objective. I studied the slide briefly.
My assessment was confident. "Prophase."
"Do you mind if I look?" he asked as I began to remove the slide. His hand caught mine, to stop me, as
he asked. His fingers were ice-cold, like he'd been holding them in a snowdrift before class. But that
wasn't why I jerked my hand away so quickly. When he touched me, it stung my hand as if an electric
current had passed through us.
"I'm sorry," he muttered, pulling his hand back immediately. However, he continued to reach for themicroscope. I watched him, still staggered, as he examined the slide for an even shorter time than I had.
"Prophase," he agreed, writing it neatly in the first space on our worksheet. He swiftly switched out the
first slide for the second, and then glanced at it cursorily.
"Anaphase," he murmured, writing it down as he spoke.
I kept my voice indifferent. "May I?"
He smirked and pushed the microscope to me.
I looked through the eyepiece eagerly, only to be disappointed. Dang it, he was right.
"Slide three?" I held out my hand without looking at him.
He handed