No one is staring at you, I promised myself. No one is staring at you. No one is 
staring at you. 
But, because I couldn’t lie convincingly even to myself, I had to check. 
As I sat waiting for one of the three traffic lights in town to turn green, I peeked 
to the right—in her minivan, Mrs. Weber had turned her whole torso in my 
direction. Her eyes bored into mine, and I flinched back, wondering why she 
didn’t drop her gaze or look ashamed. It was still considered rude to stare at 
people, wasn’t it? Didn’t that apply to me anymore? 
Then I remembered that these windows were so darkly tinted that she probably 
had no idea if it was even me in here, let alone that I’d caught her looking. I tried 
to take some comfort in the fact that she wasn’t really staring at me, just the car. 
My car. Sigh. 
I glanced to the left and groaned. Two pedestrians were frozen on the sidewalk, 
missing their chance to cross as they stared. Behind them, Mr. Marshall was 
gawking through the plate-glass window of his little souvenir shop. At least he 
didn’t have his nose pressed up against the glass. Yet. 
The light turned green and, in my hurry to escape, I stomped on the gas pedal 
without thinking—the normal way I would have punched it to get my ancient 
Chevy truck moving. 
Engine snarling like a hunting panther, the car jolted forward so fast that my 
body slammed into the black leather seat and my stomach flattened against my 
spine. 
“Arg!” I gasped as I fumbled for the brake. Keeping my head, I merely tapped the 
pedal. The car lurched to an absolute standstill anyway. 
I couldn’t bear to look around at the reaction. If there had been any doubt as to 
who was driving this car before, it was gone now. With the toe of my shoe, I 
gently nudged the gas pedal down one half millimeter, and the car shot forward 
again. 
I managed to reach my goal, the gas station. If I hadn’t been running on vapors, I 
wouldn’t have come into town at all. I was going without a lot of things these 
days, like Pop-Tarts and shoelaces, to avoid spending time in public. 
Moving as if I were in a race, I got the hatch open, the cap off, the card scanned, 
and the nozzle in the tank within seconds. Of course, there was nothing I could do to make the numbers on the gauge pick up the pace. They ticked by sluggishly, 
almost as if they were doing it just to annoy me. 
It wasn’t bright out—a typical drizzly day in Forks, Washington—but I still felt 
like a spotlight was trained on me, drawing attention to the delicate ring on my 
left hand. At times like this, sensing the eyes on my back, it felt as if the ring were 
pulsing like a neon sign: Look at me, look at me. 
It was stupid to be so self-conscious, and I knew that. Besides my dad and mom, 
did it really matter what people were saying about my engagement? About my 
new car? About my mysterious acceptance into an Ivy League college? About the 
shiny black credit card that felt red-hot in my back pocket right now? 
“Yeah, who cares what they think,” I muttered under my breath. 
“Um, miss?” a man’s voice called. 
I turned, and then wished I hadn’t. 
Two men stood beside a fancy SUV with brand-new kayaks tied to the top. 
Neither of them was looking at me; they both were staring at the car. 
Personally, I didn’t get it. But then, I was just proud I could distinguish between 
the symbols for Toyota, Ford, and Chevy. This car was glossy black, sleek, and 
pretty, but it was still just a car to me. 
“I’m sorry to bother you, but could you tell me what kind of car you’re driving?” 
the tall one asked. 
“Um, a Mercedes, right?” 
“Yes,” the man said politely while his shorter friend rolled his eyes at my answer. 
“I know. But I was wondering, is that… are you driving a Mercedes Guardian?” 
The man said the name with reverence. I had a feeling this guy would get along 
well with Edward Cullen, my… my fiancé (there really was no getting around that 
truth with the wedding just days away). “They aren’t supposed to be available in 
Europe yet,” the man went on, “let alone here.” 
While his eyes traced the contours of my car—it didn’t look much different from 
any other Mercedes sedan to me, but what did I know?—I briefly contemplated 
my issues with words like fiancé, wedding, husband, etc. 
I just couldn’t put it together in my head. 
On the one hand, I had been raised to cringe at the very thought of poofy white 
dresses and bouquets. But more than that, I just couldn’t reconcile a staid, 
respectable, dull concept like husband with my concept of Edward. It was like casting an archangel as an accountant; I couldn’t visualize him in any 
commonplace role. 
Like always, as soon as I started thinking about Edward I was caught up in a dizzy 
spin of fantasies. The stranger had to clear his throat to get my attention; he was 
still waiting for an answer about the car’s make and model. 
“I don’t know,” I told him honestly. 
“Do you mind if I take a picture with it?” 
It took me a second to process that. “Really? You want to take a picture with the 
car?” 
“Sure—nobody is going to believe me if I don’t get proof.” 
“Um. Okay. Fine.” 
I swiftly put away the nozzle and crept into the front seat to hide while the 
enthusiast dug a huge professional-looking camera out of his backpack. He and 
his friend took turns posing by the hood, and then they went to take pictures at 
the back end. 
“I miss my truck,” I whimpered to myself. 
Very, very convenient—too convenient—that my truck would wheeze its last 
wheeze just weeks after Edward and I had agreed to our lopsided compromise, 
one detail of which was that he be allowed to replace my truck when it passed on. 
Edward swore it was only to be expected; my truck had lived a long, full life and 
then expired of natural causes. According to him. And, of course, I had no way to 
verify his story or to try to raise my truck from the dead on my own. My favorite 
mechanic— 
I stopped that thought cold, refusing to let it come to a conclusion. Instead, I 
listened to the men’s voices outside, muted by the car walls. 
“. . . went at it with a flamethrower in the online video. Didn’t even pucker the 
paint.” 
“Of course not. You could roll a tank over this baby. Not much of a market for one 
over here. Designed for Middle East diplomats, arms dealers, and drug lords 
mostly.” 
“Think she’s something?” the short one asked in a softer voice. I ducked my head, 
cheeks flaming. “Huh,” the tall one said. “Maybe. Can’t imagine what you’d need missile-proof 
glass and four thousand pounds of body armor for around here. Must be headed 
somewhere more hazardous.” 
Body armor. Four thousand pounds of body armor. And missile-proof glass? 
Nice. What had happened to good old-fashioned bulletproof? 
Well, at least this made some sense—if you had a twisted sense of humor. 
It wasn’t like I hadn’t expected Edward to take advantage of our deal, to weight it 
on his side so that he could give so much more than he would receive. I’d agreed 
that he could replace my truck when it needed replacing, not expecting that 
moment to come quite so soon, of course. When I’d been forced to admit that the 
truck had become no more than a still-life tribute to classic Chevys on my curb, I 
knew his idea of a replacement was probably going to embarrass me. Make me 
the focus of stares and whispers. I’d been right about that part. But even in my 
darkest imaginings I had not foreseen that he would get me two cars. 
The “before” car and the “after” car, he’d explained when I’d flipped out. 
This was just the “before” car. He’d told me it was a loaner and promised that he 
was returning it after the wedding. It all had made absolutely no sense to me. 
Until now. 
Ha ha. Because I was so fragilely human, so accident-prone, so much a victim to 
my own dangerous bad luck, apparently I needed a tank-resistant car to keep me 
safe. Hilarious. I was sure he and his brothers had enjoyed the joke quite a bit 
behind my back. 
Or maybe, just maybe, a small voice whispered in my head, it’s not a joke, silly. 
Maybe he’s really that worried about you. This wouldn’t be the first time he’s 
gone a little overboard trying to protect you. 
I sighed. 
I hadn’t seen the “after” car yet. It was hidden under a sheet in the deepest corner 
of the Cullens’ garage. I knew most people would have peeked by now, but I really 
didn’t want to know. 
Probably no body armor on that car—because I wouldn’t need it after the 
honeymoon. Virtual indestructibility was just one of the many perks I was 
looking forward to. The best parts about being a Cullen were not expensive cars 
and impressive credit cards. 
“Hey,” the tall man called, cupping his hands to the glass in an effort to peer in. 
“We’re done now. Thanks a lot!” “Hello?” Seth Clearwater answered, and I sighed in relief. I was way too chicken 
to speak to his older sister, Leah. The phrase “bite my head off” was not entirely a 
figure of speech when it came to Leah. 
“Hey, Seth, it’s Bella.” 
“Oh, hiya, Bella! How are you?” 
Choked up. Desperate for reassurance. “Fine.” 
“Calling for an update?” 
“You’re psychic.” 
“Not hardly. I’m no Alice—you’re just predictable,” he joked. Among the Quileute 
pack down at La Push, only Seth was comfortable even mentioning the Cullens by 
name, let alone joking about things like my nearly omniscient sister-in-law-to-be. 
“I know I am.” I hesitated for a minute. “How is he?” 
Seth sighed. “Same as ever. He won’t talk, though we know he hears us. He’s 
trying not to think human, you know. Just going with his instincts.” 
“Do you know where he is now?” 
“Somewhere in northern Canada. I can’t tell you which province. He doesn’t pay 
much attention to state lines.” 
“Any hint that he might . . .” 
“He’s not coming home, Bella. Sorry.” 
I swallowed. “S’okay, Seth. I knew before I asked. I just can’t help wishing.” 
“Yeah. We all feel the same way.” 
“Thanks for putting up with me, Seth. I know the others must give you a hard 
time.” 
“They’re not your hugest fans,” he agreed cheerfully. “Kind of lame, I think. Jacob 
made his choices, you made yours. Jake doesn’t like their attitude about it. 
’Course, he isn’t super thrilled that you’re checking up on him, either.” 
I gasped. “I thought he wasn’t talking to you?” 
“He can’t hide everything from us, hard as he’s trying.”
So Jacob knew I was worried. I wasn’t sure how I felt about that. Well, at least he 
knew I hadn’t skipped off into the sunset and forgotten him completely. He might 
have imagined me capable of that. 
“I guess I’ll see you at the… wedding,” I said, forcing the word out through my 
teeth. 
“Yeah, me and my mom will be there. It was cool of you to ask us.” 
I smiled at the enthusiasm in his voice. Though inviting the Clearwaters had been 
Edward’s idea, I was glad he’d thought of it. Having Seth there would be nice—a 
link, however tenuous, to my missing best man. “It wouldn’t be the same without 
you.” 
“Tell Edward I said
 
