She rolled her eyes and darted out the door. 
I concentrated on my breathing, counting each movement of my lungs, and 
stared at the patterns that the bathroom light made on the shiny fabric of my 
skirt. I was afraid to look in the mirror—afraid the image of myself in the wedding 
dress would send me over the edge into a full-scale panic attack. 
Alice was back before I had taken two hundred breaths, in a dress that flowed 
down her slender body like a silvery waterfall. 
“Alice—wow.” 
“It’s nothing. No one will be looking at me today. Not while you’re in the room.” 
“Har har.” 
“Now, are you in control of yourself, or do I have to bring Jasper up here?” 
“They’re back? Is my mom here?” 
“She just walked in the door. She’s on her way up.” 
Renée had flown in two days ago, and I’d spent every minute I could with her—
every minute that I could pry her away from Esme and the decorations, in other 
words. As far as I could tell, she was having more fun with this than a kid locked 
inside Disneyland overnight. In a way, I felt almost as cheated as Charlie. All that 
wasted terror over her reaction... 
“Oh, Bella!” she squealed now, gushing before she was all the way through the 
door. “Oh, honey, you’re so beautiful! Oh, I’m going to cry! Alice, you’re amazing! 
You and Esme should go into business as wedding planners. Where did you find 
this dress? It’s gorgeous! So graceful, so elegant. Bella, you look like you just 
stepped out of an Austen movie.” My mother’s voice sounded a little distance 
away, and everything in the room was slightly blurry. “Such a creative idea, 
designing the theme around Bella’s ring. So romantic! To think it’s been in 
Edward’s family since the eighteen hundreds!” 
Alice and I exchanged a brief conspiratorial look. My mom was off on the dress 
style by more than a hundred years. The wedding wasn’t actually centered around 
the ring, but around Edward himself. 
There was a loud, gruff throat-clearing in the doorway. 
“Renée, Esme said it’s time you got settled down there,” Charlie said. 
“Well, Charlie, don’t you look dashing!” Renée said in a tone that was almost 
shocked. That might have explained the crustiness of Charlie’s answer.
“Alice got to me.” 
“Is it really time already?” Renée said to herself, sounding almost as nervous as I 
felt. “This has all gone so fast. I feel dizzy.” 
That made two of us. 
“Give me a hug before I go down,” Renée insisted. “Carefully now, don’t tear 
anything.” 
My mother squeezed me gently around the waist, then wheeled for the door, only 
to complete the spin and face me again. 
“Oh goodness, I almost forgot! Charlie, where’s the box?” 
My dad rummaged in his pockets for a minute and then produced a small white 
box, which he handed to Renée. Renée lifted the lid and held it out to me. 
“Something blue,” she said. 
“Something old, too. They were your Grandma Swan’s,” Charlie added. “We had a 
jeweler replace the paste stones with sapphires.” 
Inside the box were two heavy silver hair combs. Dark blue sapphires were 
clustered into intricate floral shapes atop the teeth. 
My throat got all thick. “Mom, Dad… you shouldn’t have.” 
“Alice wouldn’t let us do anything else,” Renée said. “Every time we tried, she all 
but ripped our throats out.” 
A hysterical giggle burst through my lips. 
Alice stepped up and quickly slid both combs into my hair under the edge of the 
thick braids. “That’s something old and something blue,” Alice mused, taking a 
few steps back to admire me. “And your dress is new… so here—” 
She flicked something at me. I held my hands out automatically, and the filmy 
white garter landed in my palms. 
“That’s mine and I want it back,” Alice told me. 
I blushed. 
“There,” Alice said with satisfaction. “A little color—that’s all you needed. You are 
officially perfect.” With a little self-congratulatory smile, she turned to my 
parents. “Renée, you need to get downstairs.” “Yes, ma’am.” Renée blew me a kiss and hurried out the door. 
“Charlie, would you grab the flowers, please?” 
While Charlie was out of the room, Alice hooked the garter out of my hands and 
then ducked under my skirt. I gasped and tottered as her cold hand caught my 
ankle; she yanked the garter into place. 
She was back on her feet before Charlie returned with the two frothy white 
bouquets. The scent of roses and orange blossom and freesia enveloped me in a 
soft mist. 
Rosalie—the best musician in the family next to Edward—began playing the 
piano downstairs. Pachelbel’s Canon. I began hyperventilating. 
“Easy, Bells,” Charlie said. He turned to Alice nervously. “She looks a little sick. 
Do you think she’s going to make it?” 
His voice sounded far away. I couldn’t feel my legs. 
“She’d better.” 
Alice stood right in front of me, on her tiptoes to better stare me in the eye, and 
gripped my wrists in her hard hands. 
“Focus, Bella. Edward is waiting for you down there.” 
I took a deep breath, willing myself into composure. 
The music slowly morphed into a new song. Charlie nudged me. “Bells, we’re up 
to bat.” 
“Bella?” Alice asked, still holding my gaze. 
“Yes,” I squeaked. “Edward. Okay.” I let her pull me from the room, with Charlie 
tagging along at my elbow. 
The music was louder in the hall. It floated up the stairs along with the fragrance 
of a million flowers. I concentrated on the idea of Edward waiting below to get my 
feet to shuffle forward. 
The music was familiar, Wagner’s traditional march surrounded by a flood of 
embellishments. 
“It’s my turn,” Alice chimed. “Count to five and follow me.” She began a slow, 
graceful dance down the staircase. I should have realized that having Alice as my only bridesmaid was a mistake. I would look that much more uncoordinated 
coming behind her. 
A sudden fanfare trilled through the soaring music. I recognized my cue. 
“Don’t let me fall, Dad,” I whispered. Charlie pulled my hand through his arm 
and then grasped it tightly. 
One step at a time, I told myself as we began to descend to the slow tempo of the 
march. I didn’t lift my eyes until my feet were safely on the flat ground, though I 
could hear the murmurs and rustling of the audience as I came into view. Blood 
flooded my cheeks at the sound; of course I could be counted on to be the 
blushing bride. 
As soon as my feet were past the treacherous stairs, I was looking for him. For a 
brief second, I was distracted by the profusion of white blossoms that hung in 
garlands from everything in the room that wasn’t alive, dripping with long lines 
of white gossamer ribbons. But I tore my eyes from the bowery canopy and 
searched across the rows of satin-draped chairs—blushing more deeply as I took 
in the crowd of faces all focused on me—until I found him at last, standing before 
an arch overflowing with more flowers, more gossamer. 
I was barely conscious that Carlisle stood by his side, and Angela’s father behind 
them both. I didn’t see my mother where she must have been sitting in the front 
row, or my new family, or any of the guests—they would have to wait till later. 
All I really saw was Edward’s face; it filled my vision and overwhelmed my mind. 
His eyes were a buttery, burning gold; his perfect face was almost severe with the 
depth of his emotion. And then, as he met my awed gaze, he broke into a 
breathtaking smile of exultation. 
Suddenly, it was only the pressure of Charlie’s hand on mine that kept me from 
sprinting headlong down the aisle. 
The march was too slow as I struggled to pace my steps to its rhythm. Mercifully, 
the aisle was very short. And then, at last, at last, I was there. Edward held out his 
hand. Charlie took my hand and, in a symbol as old as the world, placed it in 
Edward’s. I touched the cool miracle of his skin, and I was home. 
Our vows were the simple, traditional words that had been spoken a million 
times, though never by a couple quite like us. We’d asked Mr. Weber to make 
only one small change. He obligingly traded the line “till death do us part” for the 
more appropriate “as long as we both shall live.” 
In that moment, as the minister said his part, my world, which had been upside 
down for so long now, seemed to settle into its proper position. I saw just how 
silly I’d been for fearing this—as if it were an unwanted birthday gift or an embarrassing exhibition, like the prom. I looked into Edward’s shining, 
triumphant eyes and knew that I was winning, too. Because nothing else 
mattered but that I could stay with him. 
I didn’t realize I was crying until it was time to say the binding words. 
“I do,” I managed to choke out in a nearly unintelligible whisper, blinking my 
eyes clear so I could see his face. 
When it was his turn to speak, the words rang clear and victorious. 
“I do,” he vowed. 
Mr. Weber declared us husband and wife, and then Edward’s hands reached up 
to cradle my face, carefully, as if it were as delicate as the white petals swaying 
above our heads. I tried to comprehend, through the film of tears blinding me, 
the surreal fact that this amazing person was mine. His golden eyes looked as if 
they would have tears, too, if such a thing were not impossible. He bent his head 
toward mine, and I stretched up on the tips of my toes, throwing my arms—
bouquet and all—around his neck. 
He kissed me tenderly, adoringly; I forgot the crowd, the place, the time, the 
reason… only remembering that he loved me, that he wanted me, that I was his. 
He began the kiss, and he had to end it; I clung to him, ignoring the titters and 
the throat-clearing in the audience. Finally, his hands restrained my face and he 
pulled back—too soon—to look at me. On the surface his sudden smile was 
amused, almost a smirk. But underneath his momentary entertainment at my 
public exhibition was a deep joy that echoed my own. 
The crowd erupted into applause, and he turned our bodies to face our friends 
and family. I couldn’t look away from his face to see them. 
My mother’s arms were the first to find me, her tear-streaked face the first thing I 
saw when I finally tore my eyes unwillingly from Edward. And then I was handed 
through the crowd, passed from embrace to embrace, only vaguely aware of who 
held me, my attention centered on Edward’s hand clutched tightly in my own. I 
did recognize the difference between the soft, warm hugs of my human friends 
and the gentle, cool embraces of my new family. 
One scorching hug stood out from all the others—Seth Clearwater had braved the 
throng of vampires to stand in for my lost werewolf friend.
The wedding flowed into the reception party smoothly—proof of Alice’s flawless 
planning. It was just twilight over the river; the ceremony had lasted exactly the 
right amount of time, allowing the sun to set behind the trees. The lights in the 
trees glimmered as Edward led me through the glass back doors, making the 
white flowers glow. There were another ten thousand flowers out here, serving as 
a fragrant, airy tent over the dance floor set up on the grass under two of the 
ancient cedars. 
Things slowed down, relaxed as the mellow August evening surrounded us. The 
little crowd spread out under the soft shine of the twinkle lights, and we were 
greeted again by the friends we’d just embraced. There
