I didn't sleep well that night, even after I was done crying. The constant whooshing of the rain and wind
across the roof wouldn't fade into the background. I pulled the faded old quilt over my head, and later
added the pillow, too. But I couldn't fall asleep until after midnight, when the rain finally settled into a
quieter drizzle.
Thick fog was all I could see out my window in the morning, and I could feel the claustrophobia creeping
up on me. You could never see the sky here; it was like a cage.
Breakfast with Charlie was a quiet event. He wished me good luck at school. I thanked him, knowing his
hope was wasted. Good luck tended to avoid me. Charlie left first, off to the police station that was his
wife and family. After he left, I sat at the old square oak table in one of the three unmatching chairs and
examined his small kitchen, with its dark paneled walls, bright yellow cabinets, and white linoleum floor.
Nothing was changed. My mother had painted the cabinets eighteen years ago in an attempt to bring
some sunshine into the house. Over the small fireplace in the adjoining handkerchief-sized family room
was a row of pictures. First a wedding picture of Charlie and my mom in Las Vegas, then one of the
three of us in the hospital after I was born, taken by a helpful nurse, followed by the procession of my
school pictures up to last year's. Those were embarrassing to look at — I would have to see what I
could do to get Charlie to put them somewhere else, at least while I was living here.
It was impossible, being in this house, not to realize that Charlie had never gotten over my mom. It made
me uncomfortable.
I didn't want to be too early to school, but I couldn't stay in the house anymore. I donned my jacket —
which had the feel of a biohazard suit — and headed out into the rain.
It was just drizzling still, not enough to soak me through immediately as I reached for the house key that
was always hidden under the eaves by the door, and locked up. The sloshing of my new waterproof
boots was unnerving. I missed the normal crunch of gravel as I walked. I couldn't pause and admire my
truck again as I wanted; I was in a hurry to get out of the misty wet that swirled around my head and
clung to my hair under my hood.
Inside the truck, it was nice and dry. Either Billy or Charlie had obviously cleaned it up, but the tan
upholstered seats still smelled faintly of tobacco, gasoline, and peppermint. The engine started quickly, to
my relief, but loudly, roaring to life and then idling at top volume. Well, a truck this old was bound to
have a flaw. The antique radio worked, a plus that I hadn't expected.
Finding the school wasn't difficult, though I'd never been there before. The school was, like most other
things, just off the highway. It was not obvious that it was a school; only the sign, which declared it to be
the Forks High School, made me stop. It looked like a collection of matching houses, built with
maroon-colored bricks. There were so many trees and shrubs I couldn't see its size at first. Where was
the feel of the institution? I wondered nostalgically. Where were the chain-link fences, the metal
detectors?
I parked in front of the first building, which had a small sign over the door reading front office. No one
else was parked there, so I was sure it was off limits, but I decided I would get directions inside instead
of circling around in the rain like an idiot. I stepped unwillingly out of the toasty truck cab and walked
down a little stone path lined with dark hedges. I took a deep breath before opening the door.
Inside, it was brightly lit, and warmer than I'd hoped. The office was small; a little waiting area with
padded folding chairs, orange-flecked commercial carpet, notices and awards cluttering the walls, a big
clock ticking loudly. Plants grew everywhere in large plastic pots, as if there wasn't enough greeneryoutside. The room was cut in half by a long counter, cluttered with wire baskets full of papers and
brightly colored flyers taped to its front. There were three desks behind the counter, one of which was
manned by a large, red-haired woman wearing glasses. She was wearing a purple t-shirt, which
immediately made me feel overdressed.
The red-haired woman looked up. "Can I help you?"
"I'm Isabella Swan," I informed her, and saw the immediate awareness light her eyes. I was expected, a
topic of gossip no doubt. Daughter of the Chief's flighty ex-wife, come home at last.
"Of course," she said. She dug through a precariously stacked pile of documents on her desk till she
found the ones she was looking for. "I have your schedule right here, and a map of the school." She
brought several sheets to the counter to show roe.
She went through my classes for me, highlighting the best route to each on the map, and gave me a slip to
have each teacher sign, which I was to bring back at the end of the day. She smiled at me and hoped,
like Charlie, that I would like it here in Forks. I smiled back as convincingly as I could.
When I went back out to my truck, other students were starting to arrive. I drove around the school,
following the line of traffic. I was glad to see that most of the cars were older like mine, nothing flashy. At
home I'd lived in one of the few lower-income neighborhoods that were included in the Paradise Valley
District. It was a common thing to see a new Mercedes or Porsche in the student lot. The nicest car here
was a shiny Volvo, and it stood out. Still, I cut the engine as soon as I was in a spot, so that the
thunderous volume wouldn't draw attention to me.
I looked at the map in the truck, trying to memorize it now; hopefully I wouldn't have to walk around with
it stuck in front of my nose all day. I stuffed everything in my bag, slung the strap over my shoulder, and
sucked in a huge breath. I can do this, I lied to myself feebly. No one was going to bite me. I finally
exhaled and stepped out of the truck.
I kept my face pulled back into my hood as I walked to the sidewalk, crowded with teenagers. My plain
black jacket didn't stand out, I noticed with relief.
Once I got around the cafeteria, building three was easy to spot. A large black "3" was painted on a
white square on the east corner. I felt my breathing gradually creeping toward hyperventilation as I
approached the door. I tried holding my breath as I followed two unisex raincoats through the door.
The classroom was small. The people in front of me stopped just inside the door to hang up their coats
on a long row of hooks. I copied them. They were two girls, one a porcelain-colored blonde, the other
also pale, with light brown hair. At least my skin wouldn't be a standout here.
I took the slip up to the teacher, a tall, balding man whose desk had a nameplate identifying him as Mr.
Mason. He gawked at me when he saw my name — not an encouraging response — and of course I
flushed tomato red. But at least he sent me to an empty desk at the back without introducing me to the
class. It was harder for my new classmates to stare at me in the back, but somehow, they managed. I
kept my eyes down on the reading list the teacher had given me. It was fairly basic: Bronte, Shakespeare,
Chaucer, Faulkner. I'd already read everything. That was comforting… and boring. I wondered if my
mom would send me my folder of old essays, or if she would think that was cheating. I went through
different arguments with her in my head while the teacher droned on.
When the bell rang, a nasal buzzing sound, a gangly boy with skin problems and hair black as an oil slick
leaned across the aisle to talk to me."You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" He looked like the overly helpful, chess club type.
"Bella," I corrected. Everyone within a three-seat radius turned to look at me.
"Where's your next class?" he asked.
I had to check in my bag. "Um, Government, with Jefferson, in building six."
There was nowhere to look without meeting curious eyes.
"I'm headed toward building four, I could show you the way…" Definitely over-helpful. "I'm Eric," he
added.
I smiled tentatively. "Thanks."
We got our jackets and headed out into the rain, which had picked up. I could have sworn several
people behind us were walking close enough to eavesdrop. I hoped I wasn't getting paranoid.
"So, this is a lot different than Phoenix, huh?" he asked.
"Very."
"It doesn't rain much there, does it?"
"Three or four times a year."
"Wow, what must that be like?" he wondered.
"Sunny," I told him.
"You don't look very tan."
"My mother is part albino."
He studied my face apprehensively, and I sighed. It looked like clouds and a sense of humor didn't mix.
A few months of this and I'd forget how to use sarcasm.
We walked back around the cafeteria, to the south buildings by the gym. Eric walked me right to the
door, though it was clearly marked.
"Well, good luck," he said as I touched the handle. "Maybe we'll have some other classes together." He
sounded hopeful.
I smiled at him vaguely and went inside.
The rest of the morning passed in about the same fashion. My Trigonometry teacher, Mr. Varner, who I
would have hated anyway just because of the subject he taught, was the only one who made me stand in
front of the class and introduce myself. I stammered, blushed, and tripped over my own boots on the
way to my seat.
After two classes, I started to recognize several of the faces in each class. There was always someone
braver than the others who would introduce themselves and ask me questions about how I was liking
Forks. I tried to be diplomatic, but mostly I just lied a lot. At least I never needed the map.
One girl sat next to me in both Trig and Spanish, and she walked with me to the cafeteria for lunch. She
was tiny, several inches shorter than my five feet four inches, but her wildly curly dark hair made up a lotof the difference between our heights. I couldn't remember her name, so I smiled and nodded as she
prattled about teachers and classes. I didn't try to keep up.
We sat at the end of a full table with several of her friends, who she introduced to me. I forgot all their
names as soon as she spoke them. They seemed impressed by her bravery in speaking to me. The boy
from English, Eric, waved at me from across the room.
It was there, sitting in the lunchroom, trying to make conversation with seven curious strangers, that I first
saw them.
They were sitting in the corner of the cafeteria, as far away from where I sat as possible in the long room.
There were five of them. They weren't talking, and they weren't eating, though they each had a tray of
untouched food in front of them. They weren't gawking at me, unlike most of the other students, so it was
safe to stare at them without fear of meeting an excessively interested pair of eyes. But it was none of


